 AS SOON AS I GOT OUT OF THERE, I HAD TO TELL AS MANY PEOPLE AS I COULD WHAT KIND OF EXPERIENCE I'D HAD, PERHAPS AS A MEANS OF CONVINCING MYSELF THAT I'D NEVER HAVE TO GO BACK THERE AGAIN. MAYBE IN A FEW YEARS WHEN SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE OUT TOO, I'LL RUN INTO ONE OF THEM IN THE STREET, AND EXCHANGE PLEASANTRIES. THAT MIGHT BE NICE. BUT THAT'LL BE IT.

 Barberey, or Fromage de Troyes Champagne, France

 Soft, creamy and smooth, resembling Camembert, five to six inches in diameter and 1-1/4 inches thick. Named from its home town, Barberey, near Troyes, whose name it also bears. Fresh, warm milk is coagulated by rennet in four hours. Uncut curd then goes into a wooden mold with a perforated bottom, to drain three hours, before being finished off in an earthenware mold. The cheeses are salted, dried and ripened three weeks

 in a cave. The season is from November to May and when made in summer they are often sold fresh.

 NOW I'M LOST IN THE TV. THEY HAD TV IN THERE, BUT IT'S NOTHING LIKE THE TV OF FREEDOM. I LOVE THE ADVERTS, AND THE IDEA THAT I COULD GO OUT AND PURCHASE SOME OF THESE AWESOME PRODUCTS. NOT THAT I HAVE ANY MONEY TO BUY THEM WITH, BUT I WILL HAVE ONE DAY, WHEN I GET BACK ON MY FEET. I'LL HAVE A JOB AND A SUIT AND CAREER PROSPECTS AND LIFE INSURANCE AND GYM MEMBERSHIP AND SKY.

 I'M SHARING A HOUSE RIGHT NOW WITH SIX OTHER PEOPLE. SAMANTHA, BARRY, CRAIG, DUNDER, FOXY, AND GOGO. GOGO'S GIRLFRIEND, PET, STAYS OVER MOST NIGHTS. THEY ALL SEEM LIKE GOOD PEOPLE. APART FROM BARRY, HE'S AN ARSEHOLE, BUT WHAT CAN YOU DO? I AIN'T GONNA KILL HIM.

 Barboux France

 Soft.

 Baronet U.S.A.

 A natural product, mild and mellow.

 Barron France

 Soft.

 Just going out.

 Alright.

 You want anything?

 You buying?

 I'm buying if you're paying.

 I'm not paying.

 Seriously. I'm going the shops. You want anything from the shops?

 Socks.

 What?

 Socks. I need ... I need a couple of pairs ...

 S'that a joke?

 No. Look at these holes.

 I'm going the supermarket.

 They sell socks in the supermarket.

 Yeah, but it's not a normal ... it's not a normal request ...

 I ain't gonna lie and say I want a pint of milk just to fit in with your perception of normality, you maniac. I WANT A PAIR OF SOCKS.

 No need for a barney. Alright? Alright?

 Yeah.

 ALRIGHT?

 Now you're the one getting worked up.

 So, what size are you?

 What size what?

 Socks. What size socks?

 Do socks come in sizes?

 Stands to reason. Shoes come in sizes. People have different size feet, so they must have different size socks. You understand?

 I'm size nine shoes. But sometimes I wear size eight. My shoes are size nine and my trainers are size eight. When I went in the shop to buy my trainers, this guy asked me what size I took, so I told him size nine, so he got me size nine, but size nine were a bit too big, so I got size eight. So, maybe I'm a size eight all along and my shoes are just too big for me.

 I'll see what they got. You can pay me later. You'd better pay me.

 I'll have to see what money I got. How much do socks cost?

 Bassillac see Bleu.

 Bath England

 Gently made, lightly salted, drained on a straw mat in the historic resort town of Bath. Ripened in two weeks and eaten only when covered with a refined fuzzy mold that's also eminently edible. It is the most delicate of English-speaking cheeses.

 Battelmatt Switzerland, St. Gothard Alps, northern Italy, and western Austria

 An Emmentaler made small where milk is not plentiful. The "wheel" is only sixteen inches in diameter and four inches high, weighing forty to eighty pounds. The cooking of the curd is done at a little lower temperature than Emmentaler, it ripens more rapidly--in four months --and is somewhat softer, but has the same holes and creamy though sharp, full nutty flavor.

 Oh yeah, and Barry. Barry. BARRY!

 Bauden (see also Koppen) Germany, Austria, Bohemia and Silesia

 Semisoft, sour milk, hand type, made in herders' mountain huts in about the same way as Harzkäse, though it is bigger. In two forms, one cup shape (called Koppen), the other a cylinder. Strong and aromatic, whether made with or without caraway.

 Bavarian Beer cheese see Bayrischer Bierkäse.

 What? I was halfway down the stairs. What, Razor? What? WHAT?

 Can you get some cheese?

 Bavarian Cream German

 Very soft; smooth and creamy. Made in the Bavarian mountains. Especially good with sweet wines and sweet sauces.

 Bavarois à la Vanille see Fromage Bavarois.

 FEBRUARY WAS THE WORST MONTH FOR ME. EVERY SINGLE DAY I WAS LIKE A PUPPET BEING OPERATED BY MY OWN HAND. IT FELT LIKE SOMEONE ELSE WAS TAKING OVER MY LIFE. SOMEONE OR SOMETHING HIDEOUS WAS CONTROLLING MY EVERY MOVE. I SUPPOSE IT'S ONLY NATURAL WHEN YOU'VE BEEN THROUGH SOMETHING TRAUMATIC. I'VE TALKED TO OTHER PEOPLE ABOUT IT, AND THEY FEEL THE SAME WAY THAT I DO. THE FIRST MONTH IS THE WORST. I FEEL COMFORTED BY THAT, COMFORTED BY THE Bayonne see Fromage de Bayonne.

 Bayrischer Bierkäse Bavaria

 Bavarian beer cheese from the Tyrol is made not only to eat with beer, but to dunk in it.

 Beads of cheese Tibet

 Beads of hard cheese, two inches in diameter, are strung like a necklace of cowrie shells or a rosary, fifty to a hundred on a string. Also see Money Made of Cheese.

 Beagues see Tome de Savoie. SOMEHOW IT BROUGHT ME BACK TO REALITY, BACK TO MY OLD LIFE, ONLY NOW I WAS A VISITOR, LIKE AN EX-PUPIL WANDERING AROUD THEIR OLD SCHOOL GROUNDS. YOU CAN'T JUST SIT BEHIND A DESK WITH ALL THE OTHER KIDS ANYMORE, BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT A CHILD ANYMORE, YOU'RE A GROWN-UP, YOU'RE A REAL PERSON Bean Cake, Tao-foo, or Tofu China, Japan, the Orient

 Soy bean cheese imported from Shanghai and other oriental ports, and also imitated in every Chinatown around the world. Made from the milk of beans and curdled with its own vegetable rennet.

 Beaujolais see Chevretons.

 Beaumont, or Tome de Beaumont Savoy, France

 A more or less successful imitation of Trappist Tamie, a trade-secret triumph of Savoy. At its best from October to June.

 OF COURSE, SAMANTHA WAS THE BIGGEST HELP, AND SHE KNOWS THAT. SHE PREFERS IT WHEN PEOPLE CALL HER SAM, BUT I LIKE THE SOUND OF HER FULL NAME. SAM-AN-THA. I PRONOUNCE EACH SYLLABLE DELIBERATELY. I CAN TASTE HER NAME.

 I KNOW THIS IS REAL LOVE BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO TOUCH HER, I JUST WANT TO BE WITH HER. I WANT HER TO WANT ME TOO, BUT FOR THE RIGHT REASONS. I DON'T WANT HER TO THINK I'M DANGEROUS, BRCAUSE I DON'T WANT TO BE DANGEROUS ANYMORE. MAYBE I SHOULD DITCH THE NICKNAME.

 Beaupré de Roybon Dauphiné, France

 A winter specialty made from November to April.

 Beckenried Switzerland

 A good mountain cheese from goat milk.

 Beer cheese U.S.A.

 While our beer cheese came from Germany and the word is merely a translation of Bierkäse, we use it chiefly for a type of strong Limburger made mostly in Milwaukee. This fine, aromatic cheese is considered by many as the very best to eat while drinking beer. But in Germany Bierkäse is more apt to be dissolved in a glass or

 stein of beer, much as we mix malted powder in milk, and drunk with it, rather than eaten.

 THE CONTENTS OF MY LIVING ROOM (IT'S NOT REALLY "MY" LIVING ROOM):

 TV

 COUPLE OF OLD SOFAS -- ONE BROWN, ONE SICKLY ORANGE. THEY MATCH THE SHIT '70S WALLPAPER.

 BOOKSHELVES, STUFFED WITH EVERYTHING APART FROM BOOKS -- ASSORTED TOILETERIES, MAKE UP, A POT OF PAINT, A PHOTO IN A FRAME LYING FACE DOWN, SEVERAL ASHTRAYS, CANDLES, MATCHES, LIGHTERS, SELOTAPE, BLUE-TAC, AN OLD NEWSPAPER WITH BITS CUT OUT.

 EMPTY WASTE BIN. THERE'S RUBBISH ALL OVER THE FLOOR, INCLUDING A HALF-EATEN MICROWAVE HOT DOG THAT'S BEEN THERE FOR DAYS, AND A COFFEE CUP WITH MOULD IN.

 A COFFEE TABLE WITH FOOTPRINTS ON IT.

 AN OLD-SKOOL LANDLINE PHONE WITH A DIAL.

 A SALVADOR DALI PRINT (DON'T KNOW WHO PUT THAT THERE) NEXT TO A MASSIVE PICTURE OF ELVIS (BARRY'S A FAN).

 ASSORTED TISSUES, SWEET WRAPPERS, CRISP PACKETS, FAG ENDS, AND A SCATEBOARD.

 Beer-Regis Dorsetshire, England

 This sounds like another beer cheese, but it's only a mild Cheddar named after its hometown in Dorsetshire.

 ACTUALLY, THERE'S ONE BOOK ON THE SHELF. IT'S "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF CHEESE" BY ROBERT CARLTON BROWN. IT MUST BE ONE OF CRAIG'S.

 So, where's Barry?

 In the kitchen.

 I thought he was out.

 No, he came back.

 Did he bring my socks?

 My goodness, Razor, is that fellow your butler now?

 He wishes. The boy don't have the style. HEY BARRY! BARRY!

 You might want to go in there and find him, Razor.

 I might.

 It's just a suggestion.

 BARRY!

 Seriously. No shouting. I've got a headache.

 OK, OK, OK, OK.

 Beist-Cheese Scotland

 A curiosity of the old days. "The first milk after a calving, boiled or baked to a thick consistency, the result somewhat resembling new-made cheese, though this is clearly not a true cheese." (MacNeill)

 You are joking. You are joking, mate. Seriously, Barry. Get up, mate. It's not funny. I can tell that's not real blood. Come on, mate. Seriously. Barry. Barry. BARRY!!!!!!!

 Belarno Italy

 Hard; goat; creamy dessert cheese.

 Excuse me, chaps. What did I tell you about shouting?

 I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Craig. No, really, I'm ... oh my God.

 What is it?

 I don't mean to shout. Really, I don't mean to shout. Just get an ambulance. Get an ambulance! GET AN AMBULANCE!

 Belgian Cooked Belgium

 

 CRAIG:

 I was wearing my dungarees the day Barry was murdered. I used them to paint in. They belonged to my mum originally. She wore them while she was pregnant with me. They were her maternity dungarees.

 Sometimes I wear women's clothes to work. They can't sack me, it's discrimination. Anyway, I'm always out of sight of the general public, so I'm not bringing the company into disrepute. Wouldn't that be ghastly?

 I'm never offended when people think I'm gay. Nine times out of ten, they're just curious observers rather than aggressive idiots. Not all aggressive idiots are straight, by the by. Homosexuals hate me. They think I give them a bad name, though heaven knows why. Hey ho.

 I like wearing women's clothes because women's clothes are sexy, and I feel sexy when I wear them. I love the feel of the fabric when I get an erection on the bus in a pair of French knickers.

 I'm not going to make excuses, because there's nothing to be ashamed of. It's not abnormal, it's not perverted -- it's a healthy expression of male sexuality. If people want to be gay, that's fine too. Most people don't have any qualms about that sort of thing nowadays, or am I just hoodwinking myself?

 I don't mean to sound arrogant, but I've got a tremendous amount of faith in human nature. It's like this chap, Razor, who moved in a few weeks back. Other people had reservations because he's been in prison, but I told them in no uncertain terms, give the fellow a chance! The satisfying thing is, I was right, because the man is jolly pleasant. It irritated me immensely when the police took him in for questioning. Just because someone's got a criminal record it doesn't make them a criminal. Why didn't they take me instead? Was it because I was wearing maternity dungarees?

 Although the printing of these observations is not paid for out of the funds of the Royal Society, yet as the Council of that body are the visitors of the Royal Observatory, it may not be misplaced to introduce the subject here.

 Some years since, a member of the Royal Society accidentally learned that there was, at an old store-shop in Thames Street, a large quantity of the volumes of the Greenwich Observations on sale as waste paper. On making inquiry, he ascertained that there were two tons and a half to be disposed of, and that an equal quantity had already been sold, for the purpose of converting it into pasteboard. The vendor said he could get fourpence a pound for the whole, and that it made capital Bristol board. The fact was mentioned by a member of the Council of the Royal Society, and they thought it necessary to inquire into the circumstances.

 I've got a confession to make. It's awful. We've got this retro telephone that we use for the landline. I got it from a charity shop. I like retro memorabilia, not just to be fashionable and pretentious, but because I feel there are certain cultural items that are worth preserving. I like old bookshops. I bought a book the other day called "Decline of Science in England" by Charles Babbage, the man who invented the computer. It was first published in 1850. My edition was from the early twentieth century. Perhaps it's a collector's item, but I only paid two pounds for it. I have no idea what the book is about, but it's jolly funny!

 Anyway, what was I saying? Oh yes. My confession. Razor was shouting at me to "GET AN AMBULANCE!" so I marched straight into the living room and picked up the retro phone, and as I dialled the three nines, I couldn't help a part of me from acknowledging the chicness of the gadget in my hand.

 How awful is that? My friend was dead in the other room, and there was me, feeling all stylish with my retro phone. Really, seriously -- how awful?!

 Now, the Observations made at the Royal Observatory are printed with every regard to typographical luxury, with large margins, on thick paper, hotpressed, and with no sort of regard to economy. This magnificence is advocated by some who maintain, that the volumes ought to be worthy of a great nation; whilst others, seeing how little that nation spends on science, regret that the sums allotted to it should not be applied with the strictest economy. If the Astronomer Royal really has a right to these volumes, printed by the government at a large expense, it is, perhaps, the most extravagant mode which was ever yet invented of paying a public servant. When that right was given to him,--let us suppose somebody had suggested the impolicy of it, lest he should sell the costly volumes for waste paper,--who would have listened for one moment to such a supposition? He would have been told that it was impossible to suppose a person in that high and responsible situation, could be so indifferent to his own reputation.

 The police took Razor away, and I was left alone in the house. There's seven people living in this place altogether -- eight if you count Pet, who's like a semi-official lodger now.

 Appropriate name, don't you think? We joke about it lots. "Our tenancy agreement says no pets," I'll say. She's cute. But anyway, even though there's eight people here, it's not often we're all around at the same time. That's a good thing, because human beings need their space. That's a proven fact.

 When the police took Razor away, though, I really didn't want to be alone. I texted everyone and told them to come back to the house. I didn't tell them any more than that, because I didn't want to say it over the phone -- least of all the funky retro one with the dial. I knew there'd be a wait before people got back, so I carried on painting. I'm repainting the living room. The wallpaper in there is vile -- truly awful, 70's tack. Glittery blue with silver swooshes. It's not even ironic.

 I had about half a wall done when Samantha came back. Out of everyone, she was the person I didn't want to break the news to. Not because of Barry but because of Razor. Their whole "special relationship" thing.

 So, as soon as I tell her Barry's dead and Razor's been arrested for his murder, she slips into some kind of denial. That's all I can call it -- she's the psychologist, not me -- it was like she refused to take it on board and started having a go at me for not doing the paint job properly. She said you're supposed to strip the wallpaper off first, anyone knows that, and I should've put some sheets down because I was getting flecks of paint on the furniture and on the carpet. I didn't admit this at the time, but I was doing it intentionally -- I wanted a faint Jackson Pollock vibe about the place. I knew she was upset about Barry and Razor, so I said I was sorry, but she just kept on at me, saying how stupid I was, and eventually I had to take her by the shoulders, and look her square in the face and tell her, "Sam, did you hear what I said? Barry's dead. They've taken his body away, and they've taken Razor, because they think he killed him."

 She wouldn't speak. She wouldn't look me in the eyes.

 I shook her, and said, "Did you hear me, Sam? This is serious. This is really happening."

 She said, "Get off me," so I let go, and she wrapped her arms around me, pressing herself up against my maternity dungarees with the paint stains.

 I've got another confession to make. When she hugged me like that, and wept in my arms, clinging to me like a favourite teddy ... well ... it felt awfully nice.

 A short time since, I applied to the President and Council of the Royal Society, for copies of the Greenwich Observations, which were necessary for an inquiry on which I was at that time engaged. Being naturally anxious to economize the small funds I can devote to science, the request appeared to me a reasonable one. It was, however, refused; and I was at the same time informed that the Observations could be purchased at the bookseller's. [This was a mistake; Mr. Murray has not copies of the Greenwich Observations prior to 1823.] When I consider that practical astronomy has not occupied a very prominent place in my pursuits, I feel disposed, on that ground, to acquiesce in the propriety of the refusal. This excuse can, however, be of no avail for similar refusals to other gentlemen, who applied nearly at the same time with myself, and whose time had been successfully devoted to the cultivation of that science. [M. Bessel, at the wish of the Royal Academy of Berlin, projected a plan for making a very extensive map of the heavens. Too vast for any individual to attempt, it was proposed that a portion should be executed by the astronomers of various countries, and invitations to this effect were widely circulated. One only of the divisions of this map was applied for by any English astronomer; and, after completing the portion of the map assigned to him, he undertook another, which had remained unprovided for. This gentleman, the Rev. Mr. Hussey, was one of the rejected applicants for the Greenwich Observations.]

 We weren't allowed to stay in the house, but no one had anywhere else to go, so the police booked us all into a B&B on the other side of town.

 The place was very oldy-worldy in that quaint English way that always makes me feel faintly ill. Still, the pillows were an absolute luxury compared to my lumpy, sweat-stained old potato sacks back at home. We stayed there for a week, but it could have been ten times longer as far as I was concerned. It was like a little holiday.

 The night we moved into the B&B, the whole gang piled into my room and we stayed up all night talking and watching TV. Pet and Gogo stayed in their room across the hallway, but everyone else was there. Razor arrived at 7.30 in the morning. The police released him after having kept him awake all night with questioning. Dunder and Foxy were crashed out on the carpet. They'd brought their duvets downstairs, and it felt like a proper sleepover from back in the day.

 As it happens, it was an awfully fun night. It sounds bad to say it -- really awful -- but we bonded, which can only be a good thing. Sometimes good things come out of bad things ... Is there a proverb that runs something along those lines? There must be. I can't think of one, but there must be. Not "good things come out of bad things," because not all bad things have good consequences, but some good things. To hell with it. Let's just say, "some good things come out of some bad things" and leave it at that.

 Me and Samantha -- or "Samantha and I," should I say -- were still awake. We'd been talking all night about anything and everything. I don't think we even mentioned Barry once, which makes me feel a little guilty. I also felt a little guilty about sitting up talking with Samantha all night -- she's Razor's girl after all. It's not like we did anything physical, but sometimes conversation can be the most intimate act of all.

 When Razor walked through the door, we were both so pleased to see him, we took it in turns to give him a hug. He told us all about how the police had questioned him for hours about Barry's murder, but they had to let him go because they didn't have any evidence. Apparently, they'd be in contact with everyone in due course to get their stories. I made some remark about wondering who on earth would want to do something like that, but Razor got the wrong end of the stick and said I was accusing him. I understood why he got angry -- it had been a long night -- but his shouting woke up Dunder and Foxy, which may have been just as well, because people had to get up and go to work.

 He stormed through to his allocated room, and Samantha followed him. I thought it would be best to leave them to it.

 There was, however, another ground on which I had weakly anticipated a different result;--but those who occupy official situations, rendered remarkable by the illustrious names of their predecessors, are placed in no enviable station; and, if their own acquirements are confessedly insufficient to keep up the high authority of their office, they must submit to the mortifications of their false position. I am sure, therefore, that the President and officers of the Royal Society must have sympathized MOST DEEPLY with me, when they felt it their duty to propose that the Society over which Newton once presided, should refuse so trifling an assistance to the unworthy possessor of the chair he once filled.

 The other good thing about that night was that I got to watch Foxy sleeping -- another of those intimate moments. Throughout my conversation with Samantha, I was picking up Foxy's gentle puffs of air. They were calming, like whale song. I kept looking down at her body, curled up in the duvet, with her arse poking tantalisingly out the back.

 I slept with Foxy once, last year. In the morning, I thought we might be boyfriend and girlfriend, but she started talking utter nonsense, accusing me of only doing it out of sympathy. "Pity" she called it. I said, "Foxy, I like you. Really. I don't do pity -- I'm really not a pleasant enough person. I just follow my instincts." She said, OK, she believed me, but we couldn't take it any further. The whole thing was a mistake. I believed that for a while, but I've been watching her recently, while she's making a cup of coffee or watching TV. I went in her room the other day while she was out. I know it was a bad thing to do. I just wanted to smell her. I buried my face in the sheets. I hope I'm not getting obsessed, or even worse, falling in love. Maybe I just want to sleep with her again. Maybe that's all it is.

 Foxy, apparently, was nicknamed ironically. She's not a conventional beauty by any means, so kids in the playground being as they are -- all fine when they're on their own, but unimaginable horrors as a group -- like a microcosm of society, I suppose -- they called her Foxy as a cruel joke. Or that's what she says. I suspect there's more to it than that, because if the name was so hurtful to her, it doesn't explain why she's stuck with it, and introduces herself as Foxy to strangers. Anyway, I love the name. I think it's highly appropriate too, because the woman has something otherworldly about her. It shouldn't work -- it really shouldn't work. One of her eyes is higher up on her face than the other. Everything is an odd size. Her nose is twice the size it should be. Even her butt-cheeks are asymmetrical.

 I can also report from exquisite personal experience that Foxy's natural hair is purest ginger, in contrast to the jet-black dye that smothers her scalp. If I were feeling cynical, I might suggest that it's that very principle kick-started the whole goth movement (or whatever they're calling it these days) -- pale-faced ginger kids dying their hair to avoid the teasing. With some people, it's disastrous, but with Foxy it works. She should look like a witch -- no offence to Foxy, or to witches. I think she's beautiful.

 In reply to my application to the President and Council, to be allowed a copy of the Greenwich Observations, I was informed that, "The number of copies placed by government at the disposal of the Royal Society, was insufficient to supply the demands made on them by various learned bodies in Europe; and, consequently, they were unable, however great their inclination, to satisfy the wishes of individual applicants."

 According to Razor, the police believe there is no doubt about the violent nature of Barry's death. He was strangled and stabbed. It's obvious to me that no one in this house would ever do anything like that. I can only assume it was a break in. Whoever killed him obviously wanted to make sure they made a proper job of it. In a way, you could say they killed him twice. The strange thing is, the weapons they used were already in the house -- they didn't bring their own. They stabbed him with a kitchen knife, and they strangled him -- this is the strange part ... they strangled him with a pair of socks. A pair of socks, for heaven's sake. How awful is that? Really -- how awful?

 SAMANTHA:

 Razor is a classic case of post-traumatic stress. Because of what happened to him in prison, physical thingamy makes him very uncomfortable. He doesn't even like sitting close to someone on the couch. That's why he's the right man for me. He doesn't know it yet, but that's what he is. My whatsit. No two ways about it. He's not going to use me for my body, because he's not interested in my body. He's getting better, though. We held hands last Tuesday at breakfast.

 There seem to be a lot of eerie coincidences in our story -- which is a love story, even though Razor doesn't know it yet. Here I am writing a thesis on post-traumatic stress when along comes this man -- tall, dark, handsome, scarred -- a classic PTS whatyamacallit. Fate handed me a guinea pig and a thingy all rolled into one.

 Wait. Stop. We're getting ahead of ourselves. We haven't even seen each other semi-naked yet, never mind mentioning thingy.

 Morgan sailed from Jamaica on 14th August 1670 with eleven vessels and 600 men for the Isle la Vache, the usual rendezvous, whence during the next three months squadrons were detailed to the coast of Cuba and the mainland of South America to collect provisions and intelligence.

 Sir William Godolphin was at that moment in Madrid concluding articles for the establishment of peace and friendship in America; and on 12th June Secretary Arlington wrote to Modyford that in view of these negotiations his Majesty commanded the privateers to forbear all hostilities on land against the Spaniards.

 I suppose I'm jealous of Razor, in a way. By that I mean I want my own problems to be easily explainable. I'll be the first to admit I'm an emotional oojamaflip. I just have no idea why. You can speculate all you like -- blame my cold-hearted parents, or my string of failed sexual relationships. It's just guesswork. The conclusion that many prefer to reach is that some people are a bit thingy.

 Well, kiss farewell to the old Sam. Razor's changing things. This is going to be nothing like the last four times. I can feel it already. The boy stops me from thinking like a scientist. I'm not logical when I'm with him. Not everything needs a whatsit. An explanation.

 Like this whole "murder" malarkey. I don't mean to speak ill of the dead, but Barry was a tosser. I'm mildly curious as to who killed him, but it's not going to keep me awake. I didn't do it, and Razor didn't do it. That's good enough for me.

 These orders reached Jamaica on 13th August, whereupon the governor recalled Morgan, who had sailed from the harbour the day before, and communicated them to him, "strictly charging him to observe the same and behave with all moderation possible in carrying on the war." The admiral replied that necessity would compel him to land in the Spaniards' country for wood, water and provisions, but unless he was assured that the enemy in their towns were making hostile preparations against the Jamaicans, he would not touch any of them.

 First and foremost, I'm not kidding myself that I'm trying to "fix" Razor. There's nothing about him that needs fixing. I know that he's prone to losing his temper. That just means he's passionate. Doesn't it?

 On 6th September, however, Vice-Admiral Collier with six sail and 400 men was dispatched by Morgan to the Spanish Main. There on 4th November he seized, in the harbour of Santa Marta, two frigates laden with provisions for Maracaibo. Then coasting eastward to Rio de la Hacha, he attacked and captured the fort with its commander and all its garrison, sacked the city, held it to ransom for salt, maize, meat and other provisions, and after occupying it for almost a month returned on 28th October to the Isle la Vache. One of the frigates captured at Santa Marta, "La Gallardina," had been with Pardal when he burnt the coast of Jamaica. Pardal's own ship of fourteen guns had been captured but a short time before by Captain John Morris at the east end of Cuba, and Pardal himself shot through the neck and killed.

 Who the fuck is reading about pirates?

 Dunno, it's probably Craig's. You know what he's like with his second-hand books.

 "The Buccaneers In The West Indies In The XVII Century" by Clarence Henry Harding. Jesus Christ, why can't he read normal books?

 I don't think he actually reads them, Gogo.

 No?

 No, I think he "collects" them.

 Why? What does he collect them for?

 You tell me.

 I don't know.

 No, but you could offer an opinion -- you usually do.

 OK, he's a prick.

 I knew you were going to say that. Feel better now?

 Yes, actually.

 What do you want for dinner?

 Sex.

 Nice try, Gogo. I'm not in the mood.

 Is it because I've been slagging off your new friend Craig?

 No.

 You could just go and fuck him if you like. Everyone else does.

 Maybe I will.

 Christ I was only joking.

 So was I. You're not jealous, are you?

 I've got nothing to be jealous of. Just try living here a bit longer, and you'll see what I mean. Fucking pirates, indeed ...

 He was called by the Jamaicans "the vapouring admiral of St. Jago," for in June he had nailed a piece of canvas to a tree on the Jamaican coast, with a curious challenge written both in English and Spanish:--

 "I, Captain Manuel Rivero Pardal, to the chief of the squadron of privateers in Jamaica. I am he who this year have done that which follows. I went on shore at Caimanos, and burnt 20 houses, and fought with Captain Ary, and took from him a catch laden with provisions and a canoe. And I am he who took Captain Baines and did carry the prize to Cartagena, and now am arrived to this coast, and have burnt it. And I come to seek General Morgan, with 2 ships of 20 guns, and having seen this, I crave he would come out upon the coast and seek me, that he might see the valour of the Spaniards. And because I had no time I did not come to the mouth of Port Royal to speak by word of mouth in the name of my king, whom God preserve. Dated the 5th of July 1670."

 I like living here. I never thought I'd say that, because sharing a house with a bunch of strangers certainly wasn't my first thingy. I've been here for six months, and it's taken me that long to settle in. You don't realize how crazy people are until you live with them. That's how I got into this situation in the first place -- moving in with another unsuitable man, despite being warned off him by friends and family. When it didn't work out, I had no other choice. I couldn't afford to stay on my own, and there was no way I was moving in with any of those "I told you so's".

 It's funny the things you learn about people when you live with them. You can tell a lot about someone from their eating habits.

 Razor takes so much pleasure in eating, after all that institutional canteen crap. He feasts on the food of freedom -- McDonalds, KFC, Dominoes Pizza -- things he didn't have access to inside. To Razor, a Big Mac is an obscene luxury. I like sitting across from him and watching him devour one, like some half-starved whatchamacallit.

 Barry ate two tubes of Pringles for dinner. Breakfast was a bag of Doritos. I suppose he must've eaten other things, but I never saw him touch anything other than crisps. I'm sure if he hadn't been thingied, a heart attack would've seen him off soon enough.

 Craig has meat with every meal -- bacon in the morning, chicken sandwich at lunchtime, and the flesh of various other animals in the night. But he wants to be vegetarian. He talks about it all the time. Every time he eats meat, he feels genuinely thingy about it. Sometimes it makes him physically sick, but he can't stop. (I've scoured my textbooks for a match for Craig's personality type, but I've drawn a blank. Freud would've had a field day. He's a genuine one-off.)

 Pet and Gogo eat off the same plate. They've done it ever since they started going out. If they're having pie and chips, they'll have half a pie each, half a plate of chips, and split the vegetables. They feed each other too, like babies. Foxy says it makes her feel slightly sick, but I think it's cute. I wonder, are they just doing it for show, or do they do it when there's other people around? I don't know if they've lost weight, but I'm sure they're both looking whatsit.

 Dunder mainly survives off liquid. He's totally unapologetic about his drinking, but insists he isn't addicted. The man necks a can of Special Brew for breakfast. Still, he doesn't hurt anyone. He isn't an aggressive drunk. He just likes a drink, he says, and that's all there is to it. One day, I'd like to sit down and talk things through with him, and perhaps try to uncover what's made him the way he is, but that's not going to happen if he continues to insist he drinks out of choice rather than compulsion. (Second thoughts, whatsit. I can't be bothered.)

 Foxy hardly eats at all. All she ever eats is salad and the occasional banana. She's still overweight, though -- that's what I don't understand. I think she might have secret take-away whatsits when no one's watching. Bless her.

 Meanwhile, in the middle of October, there sailed into Port Royal three privateers, Captains Prince, Harrison and Ludbury, who six weeks before had ascended the river San Juan in Nicaragua with 170 men and again plundered the unfortunate city of Granada. The town had rapidly decayed, however, under the repeated assaults of the buccaneers, and the plunderers secured only £20 or £30 per man. Modyford reproved the captains for acting without commissions, but "not deeming it prudent to press the matter too far in this juncture," commanded them to join Morgan at the Isle la Vache.[291] There Morgan was slowly mustering his strength.

 Razor was nicknamed ironically. It dates back to his schooldays. He was an early developer, and got a beard at fourteen. He didn't shave it off, because it made him look thingy. He could buy beer in shops. He didn't mind the nickname either -- it made him sound like a gangster. Not that he'll ever hurt a fly. He's a gentle giant, my Razor. People expect him to be a murderer because he's big. Negative stereotyping, that's all it is. That's all. It's just another kind of prejudice. That's all it is. Another kind of prejudice.

 He negotiated with the French of Tortuga and Hispaniola who were then in revolt against the régime of the French Company; and he added to his forces seven ships and 400 men sent him by the indefatigable Governor of Jamaica. On 7th October, indeed, the venture was almost ruined by a violent storm which cast the whole fleet, except the Admiral's vessel, upon the shore.

 I don't want to spoil things by getting to know him too well. That always happens, and it has to stop. I don't want to discover too much about his past, and I don't want to know everything that goes on in his head. It would take away the mystery, and it's the mystery I'm attracted to. There's something magical about him, and if I were to work out what it is, the magic would be destroyed. There's no such thing as magic, after all. It's all just trickery. This is the problem with getting to know people too well. You realize how thingy human beings really are.

 PET AND GOGO:

 Next day was Sunday. Miss Randolph went to the English church, which is the prettiest I've ever seen in France, and afterwards, escorted by the chaplain with whom she'd made friends, went forth to see the sights, while I inquired as to how we might best proceed upon our way. While Miss Randolph and Miss Kedison read their prayer-books, I studied that useful volume, Les Routes de France, and was duly warned against the impracticable roads of the Landes. The one thing to do, according to the oracle, was to return to Bordeaux and make a long détour to Bayonne by Mont de Marsan. I knew Miss Randolph would dislike this plan, for she hates going back, and so do I. If I had been alone, or with you, I would have chanced it without a moment's hesitation, making straight for Bayonne by way of the forbidden Landes, with all its pitfalls. But I funked the idea of perhaps getting Her into a mess--and hearing Aunt Mary say "I told you so," as she invariably does when there's any trouble.

 Can you pass me that lighter, babe?

 You need to slow down with those things, Gogo. You've been chain-smoking since Barry died.

 It's got nothing to do with Barry. Trust me.

 It's OK, you know. It's OK to be stressed when your housemate's been murdered. What did the cops say to you the other day?

 Same thing they said to everyone else, I expect. It's like Chinese Whispers. They're making a big deal about what they call the "relationship" between Barry and Razor. Makes me laugh. Makes it sound like they were fucking.

 Maybe they were.

 Really? You can see that, can you?

 What did you say to them?

 Who?

 The cops?

 What about?

 About Barry and Razor's "relationship"?

 I said there wasn't any "relationship." Barry got on Razor's tits, just like he did with everyone else. Razor went too far, but I don't blame him, in a way.

 Don't blame him for what?

 Killing Barry.

 Hold on, hold on. So Razor did it now?

 Well, I wouldn't say it to his face, but yeah, of course he fucking killed him. I don't think anyone else round here has it in them.

 Aren't you worried?

 What do you mean?

 Aren't you worried that Razor will kill you too?

 Why would he want to kill me?

 I don't know. For accusing him of Barry's murder, maybe?

 I told you, I'm not going to actually tell him ... I'll probably just stay out of his way for a while.

 To my joy, however, plucky Parson Radcliff had actually advanced the idea of the Landes, during their excursion, and the Goddess sent for me on Sunday evening, full of enthusiasm. Far be it from me to dampen the ardour of youth; and early on Monday morning we started to follow the route La Teste, Sanguinet, Parentis, Yehoux, Liposthey, which names reminded Miss Randolph of Gulliver's Travels.

 

 Hey, hey, stop it -- why are you tearing up that book?

 I ran out of Rizlas.

 You can't just tear pages out of books -- it's barbaric.

 It depends on what the book is, though, doesn't it? This is just another one of Craig's "curiosities". Pretentious fuck. Look at this: "The Lightening Conductor: The Strange Adventures of a Motor Car" by C.N. and A.M. Adamson. It's a travel guide from 1903.

 Sounds interesting.

 Really?

 Do you think it's worth something?

 If it's worth something, I'm definitely smoking my way through the lot. That'll teach him.

 What exactly will it teach him?

 Babe, he doesn't actually read any of these books. He sticks them on the coffee table to make himself look intellectual. He uses them as doorstops. He's an idiot. I'd be surprised if he even knows how to read.

 OK. Point taken. Move on.

 I can't move on. I hate the guy.

 You hate everyone.

 Not true. I love you. I hate everyone else. Doesn't that make you feel special?

 She and I were in fine spirits, expecting the unexpected, and bracing ourselves to encounter difficulties. There was mystery in the very thought of the Landes--that strange waste of forest and sand so little known outside its own people. I felt it, and so did Miss Randolph, I knew. How I knew I couldn't explain to you; but some electric current usually communicates her mood to me, and I should almost believe from various signs that it was so with her in regard to me, if I weren't a mere chauffeur in the lady's pay.

 It's like this whole "house meeting" business. Next time he calls a house meeting, I'm abstaining.

 Well, I know you don't agree with me, but I think Craig's house meetings are a good idea. It's a way for people to communicate -- everyone gets their say. It's democratic.

 Democracy? Don't make me laugh. We're living in a fucking dictatorship. The problem with that twat is, he thinks this is his house. It's like this business with him painting the living room. How many people did he consult about that? None of us.

 He consulted me.

 What?

 Anyway, that wallpaper was horrific. Really bad. No one liked it. Now we've got nice white walls. He was doing you all a favor.

 He consulted you? He consulted you and not me? You don't even live here! Officially, I mean...

 What does it matter? People think of me as being an extension of you. "Pet and Gogo" they call us. It's like we're one person.

 Well, as sweet as that sounds, I've got news for them -- we're not one person. They can all fuck themselves to hell. I'm finished with them.

 You always say that.

 For some distance the going was good, but we were only reading the preface to the true

 Landes as yet; and when we reached the boundary post between the department of the Gironde and the real Landes, there was one of those sudden, complete changes I've mentioned in the quality of the road. To drive into this dim, pine-clad region was like driving back into the years a century or two. A motorcar was an anachronism, and if we came to grief our blood was upon our own heads. The way became grass-grown and rutty, and I was obliged to drive slowly. Deeper and deeper we penetrated into the forest, and deeper and deeper also we sank into the soft earth. Aunt Mary groaned and prophesied disaster as we crawled along in ruts up to our axles; but I think Miss Randolph and I would have perished sooner than retreat. I trusted in the Napier and she trusted in me. In one place the road had been mended with a covering of loose rocks rather than stones; we panted and crunched our way over them, enormously to the astonishment of the road-menders and one or two dark-faced peasants, perched like cranes on the old-fashioned stilts not yet utterly abandoned as a means of navigating this sea of sand and pines. Still, on we went, the engine labouring a little, like an overworked heart; but it was a loyal heart, and the tyres were trumps.

 What shall we have for dinner then, babe?

 Dunno. Howsabout some spag boll? We could eat it on the table in the living room, like Lady and the Tramp.

 Actually, can I ask a favour, babe?

 What is it, babe?

 Could we eat on separate plates tonight? I'm really hungry.

 Miss Randolph said that if she were a tyre and condemned to such hard labour, she would burst out of sheer spite. I think Miss Kedison nearly did so as it was; but as for us (I suppose you can't conceive the satisfaction to a poor chauffeur of bracketing his lady and himself familiarly as "us"), we were intoxicated by the heavy balsam of the turpentine, for which every tree we passed was being sliced. On each a great flake of the trunk had been struck off with an axe, and a small earthen cup affixed to catch the resin, which is the heart's blood of the wounded tree. There was something Dante-esque in the effect of these bleeding wounds, among old, scarcely healed scars; and that effect was intensified by the shadowy gloom of the dense forest, and the never-ceasing sound of the wind among the high, dark branches, like the beating of surf upon an unseen shore.

 If you like.

 FOXY:

 Most days I'm fine. I can get through the day just as well as the next girl. Just not today. It's an off day, that's all.

 I tend to eat more when I'm nervous. I haven't got a problem with food, like some people think. I just don't like people watching me. This evening I went down the Chinese and got a chicken chow mein, which I stuffed into my handbag so I could smuggle it up to my room. I lit an incense stick to disguise the smell. It put me off the food a bit. It was like there was someone sitting next to me smoking.

 I might just be kidding myself. It's not just an off day, is it? My housemate was murdered two weeks ago, and no one knows who did it. I've never been so scared in my life, and I've never felt so alone. There's no one I can talk to about it, because the killer could be any one of us. How can I trust anyone after this? I was on shaky ground to begin with. I need to get out of here. I want to go up to Scotland and stay with my mum for a few days, but something's stopping me. Razor's already been arrested and released. Maybe if I leave, they'll think I'm acting suspiciously. Maybe they'll arrest me too. At least Razor's been to prison before, so he knows the drill. How would I handle the questioning? Maybe I'd crack like you see them do on the TV. I'd end up saying I did it just to shut the bastards up.

 The worst part is, I'm not sad about Barry's death. The last time I saw him, we were sitting in the living room watching The Real Hustle, and he was flicking Cheesy Wotsits at my head. I got that orange flavouring in my hair. I told him to stop it, and he just giggled. I shut myself in my room after that.

 I'm glad he's dead.

 The internal organs of insects are similar to those of other animals. The digestive tube consists of oesophagus, gizzard, or stomach, and intestines. The nervous system is well developed as shown by the extreme sensitiveness of insects to touch. The brain is comparatively small except in the bees and ants. The circulatory system consists simply of a long tube heart, the blood vessels being absent. In this way the internal organs of the insect are simply bathed in the blood. The system of respiration is most complicated. The air is taken in through pores usually along the side of the body and is then carried through fine tracheal tubes to all parts of the body. You cannot drown an insect by putting its head under water, since it does not breathe through its mouth. The muscular system is similar to that of other animals which have the skeleton on the outside.

 I started reading this book I found in the living room called "Elementory Study of Insects" by Leonard Haseman. The inside cover says it was published in 1923. I can't get into it, though. Those paint fumes from downstairs are giving me a headache. Or is it just the stress? I don't know why I agreed to let Craig paint the living room. He hasn't exactly done a good job. I know I'm in a minority, but I quite liked that wallpaper. It reminded me of my gran's when I was a kid.

 I'm not going to argue about it, though. For all I know, Craig's the killer. I've always had a funny feeling about him. I slept with him one night last year after one too many drinks. It was enough to make me want to give up booze. I catch him looking at me sometimes. I feel like turning round and saying, "What? What are you staring at?" I wonder if he's got any pictures of me on his phone. I might steal it one day and delete them.

 [Illustration: The internal organs of the honey bee. Note the strong wing muscles in the thorax. The tube-like heart begins in the head and extends back through the thorax and follows the curve of the abdomen. Below the heart is the digestive tube consisting of the slender oesophagus which extends back to the expanded honey stomach, in which the bee carries the nectar it collects from flowers, then the curled true stomach, the small intestine and expanded large intestine. Below this is the nervous system consisting of the brain and a chain of connected enlargements or ganglia extending back into the abdomen in the lower part of the body. The respiratory system in part appears just above the honey stomach, and the black circular or oval spots are cross sections of connecting air tubes, which run all through the body. Also note the sting with the poison gland and sack which are pulled out with the sting; also the sucking tube for getting honey from flowers, and the structures on the legs for gathering and carrying pollen; the pollen basket is on the back side of the hind leg.]

 I can't be bothered anymore. From now on, I'm only going to communicate with my housemates by email.

 You can tell a lot about someone from the name they pick for their email address. Samantha's is hop-scotch-wannabe@tiscali.co.uk. Like Samantha herself, this is a bit of an enigma. I don't know what a hop scotch wannabe is, so I guess it's a personal joke.

 Craig's is crushedwitheyeliner@hotmail.com. Enough said about Craig, really.

 Gogo's email address is his real name -- neil.swanson@gmail.com. I know it's hard to believe, but apparently Gogo was quite a party animal a few years back. That's how he got his nickname. It's because he was such a bad dancer. An ironic name, from a former life. I've been living in this house for a year, and I've never seen him celebrate anything. I wonder what happened to stop the party. Gogo and Craig were best friends once upon a time. Now they're never seen in the same room. Maybe moving in together was a bad idea. People say you don't really get to know someone until you live with them. I'm not sure that's true. I'm not sure if you can ever get to know anyone.

 Dunder hasn't got an email address. I'm not sure what that says about him. Maybe it just means he can't afford a computer.

 Razor only set up his email account recently. He was so excited. He chose the name wanted-man-24@yahoo.com. I said it made him sound like a criminal, but he laughed and said, "There's a double meaning. I'm wanted. This is the first time in my life that I've really felt wanted by anyone."

 I nearly burst into tears when I heard that. I think I'd die if Razor wasn't here.

 Barry was killed the following day. I bet he regrets calling himself that now.

 

 Their Methods of Developing

 In most cases the parent insect deposits small eggs which hatch later into the young insects. In some cases, as with the blow-flies, the maggot may hatch from the egg while yet in the parent's body, when the active larva is born alive. Whether the egg hatches before or after it is deposited, the young insect continues to develop in one of three ways. It may resemble the parent and simply grow as does a kitten, or it may look somewhat like its parent though smaller and without wings, as the young grasshopper, or it may bear no resemblance whatever to the parent, as the caterpillar which feeds and grows and finally spins a cocoon in which it passes to the resting chrysalis stage and later emerges with wings. The development of insects is therefore extremely complicated.

 [Illustration: The chinch bug showing development with incomplete metamorphosis; a, egg; b, first nymph; c, second nymph; d, third nymph; e, fourth nymph; f, adult winged bug; g, chinch bugs extracting sap from corn plant. To control this pest burn over all winter harboring places and use chemical or dust barriers following wheat harvest.]

 I'll move out as soon as I can. Everyone else just seems to be getting on with things, pretending none of this is happening. I keep imagining things. I'm sleeping with the door locked from now on, and a rape alarm by my bed.

 I'm not just being paranoid. Someone's stolen a pair of my knickers. They were in the laundry basket under my bed, and now they're gone. Someone's been in here, snooping around. God knows why.

 I feel violated.

 DUNDER:

 I write poetry when I'm drunk. Badly written introspective epics. I file them away in a box, and pull one out like a lucky dip when I'm bored. I howl with laughter at the monstrosity I created. I don't care that I don't write well, because I don't write for other people.

 I amuse myself, and enjoy myself often. If it weren't for hangovers, life would be bliss. I scoff at these hippies with their mind-expanding drugs. You can "find yourself" on alcohol just as easily, and it's less likely to make you crazy.

 Sometimes I find the people I live with desperately naïve. Don't get me wrong, they're a lovely bunch of people if you like that sort of thing. I'm the granddad of the bunch, I'm afraid. I must be more than twice the age of most of these twentysomethings. I could tell them some stories. I never do, mind you.

 I'd rather listen to people than talk to them. Sometimes, I get a day ticket on the bus, and ride around for a whole nine hours, just listening to conversations. I take a book and a hipflask for the boring bits. I have absolutely no shame when it comes to that. Life's too short to feel guilty about listening to other people's conversations. There are worse things I could do, which that poor sod Barry discovered recently. Unlike some of the others, I wasn't shocked by his passing. I thought it was funny. Strangled by a pair of socks, indeed!

 HOW TO SADDLE A COLT.

 Any one man, who has this theory, can put a saddle on the wildest colt that ever grew, without any help, and without scaring him. The first thing will be to tie each stirrup strap into a loose knot to make them short, and prevent the stirrups from flying about and hitting him. Then double up the skirts and take the saddle under your right arm, so as not to frighten him with it as you approach. When you get to him, rub him gently a few times with your hand, and then raise the saddle very slowly until he can see it, and smell, and feel it with his nose. Then let the skirts loose, and rub it very gently against his neck the way the hair lays, letting him hear the rattle of the skirts as he feels them against him; each time getting a little farther backward, and finally slip it over his shoulders on his back. Shake it a little with your hand, and in less than five minutes you can rattle it about over his back as much as you please, and pull it off and throw it on again, without his paying much attention to it.

 As soon as you have accustomed him to the saddle, fasten the girth. Be careful how you do this. It often frightens a Colt when he feels the girth binding him, and making the saddle fit tight on his back. You should bring up the girth very gently, and not draw it too tight at first, just enough to hold the saddle on. Move him a little, and then girth it as tight as you choose, and he will not mind it.

 Bugger me, but I've always had an odd sense of humour. It's probably the one thing I've got in common with young Craig. He gave me this book the other day called "The Arabian Art of Taming and Training Wild and Vicious Horses," by P. R. Kincaid. It's from the nineteenth century. I laughed until I was sick, and that was just at the title. I now have lots of knowledge about horses, which may come in handy one day. One never knows what circumstances one might find oneself in.

 You should see that the pad of your saddle is all right before you put it on, and that there is nothing to make it hurt him, or feel unpleasant to his back. It should not have any loose straps on the back part of it to flap about and scare him. After you have saddled him in this way, take a switch in your right hand to tap him up with, and walk about in the stable a few times with your right arm over the saddle, taking hold of the reins on each side of his neck, with your right and left hands. Thus marching him about in the stable until you learn him the use of the bridle, and can turn him about in any direction, and stop him by a gentle pull of the rein. Always caress him, and loose the reins a little every time you stop him.

 I was listening in to two conversations last night. My bedroom is located rather conveniently next to the curiously named Pet and Gogo, and that ravishing young minxette, Samantha. Samantha, I'm afraid to say, is besotted with that hoodlum, "Razor," but I could show her a thing or two given half a chance. I won't, mind you. I get more pleasure nowadays from listening to sex than having it.

 I happened to be passing young Foxy's door last night, and thought I heard faint squeaks of pleasure. I stepped as close as I could without letting the floorboards creak. It turned out she was crying. I was most disappointed. There is something about that girl that intrigues me.

 My neighbours were equally disappointing in that department, too. Pet and Gogo were having an argument -- something about food -- while on the other side, I heard faint noises, which on pressing my ear to the wall turned out to be Razor and Samantha in bed. "So, they've finally got round to it," I thought. "This looks set to be an entertaining evening."

 Fat chance of that, I'm afraid. They were just talking -- whispering, so I was unable to decipher most of the words. I managed to note the following dialogue:

 "Just hold me. I want you to hold me."

 "Of course I will. Feels nice, doesn't it?"

 "It feels wonderful."

 The youth of today make me physically sick.

 You should always be alone, and have your colt in some tight stable or shed, the first time you ride him; the loft should be high so that you can sit on his back without endangering your head. You can learn him more in two hours time in a stable of this kind, than you could in two weeks in the common way of breaking colts, out in an open place. It you follow my course of treatment, you need not run any risk, or have any trouble in riding the worst kind of a horse. You take him a step at a time, until you get up a mutual confidence and trust between yourself and horse. First learn him to lead and stand hitched, next acquaint him with the saddle, and the use of the bit; and then all that remains, is to get on him without scaring him, and you can ride him as well as any horse.

 I settled back with a bottle of red, and my book about horses. I was feeling introspective again, so I wrote the following on the inside cover:

 "Am I capable of murder?

 If I was capable of murder, would I kill?

 Who would I kill?

 Why would I kill them?

 How? With a pair of socks?

 Perhaps another kind of undergarment.

 A brassiere, for example,

 Would make a fine weapon in the wrong hands.

 It's obvious that my young housemate's killer

 Had a thing about feet.

 Sex and death,

 There's no denying it,

 Sex and death,

 Go together like a horse and carriage,

 Sex and death ..."

 I thought I might go into the library one day and slip the book into one of the shelves. I like the idea of someone discovering this ancient volume with its curious inscription.

 HOW TO MOUNT THE COLT.

 First gentle him well on both sides, about the saddle, and all over, until he will stand still without holding, and is not afraid to see you any where about him.

 As soon as you have him thus gentled, get a small block, about one foot or eighteen inches in height, and set it down by the side of him, about where you want to stand to mount him; step up on this, raising yourself very gently; horses notice every change of position very closely, and if you were to step up suddenly on the block, it would be very apt to scare him; but by raising yourself gradually on it, he will see you, without being frightened, in a position very near the same as when you are on his back.

 Tomorrow, I will go for a long walk. It feels like it ought to be a vodka day tomorrow. I'd better make it the cheap stuff.

 As soon as he will bear this without alarm, untie the stirrup strap next to you, and put your left foot into the stirrup, and stand square over it, holding your knee against the horse, and your toe out, so as to touch him under the shoulder with the toe of your boot. Place your right hand on the front of the saddle and on the opposite side of you. Taking hold of a portion of the mane and the reins as they hang loosely over his neck with your left hand; then gradually bear your weight on the stirrup, and on your right hand, until the horse feels your whole weight on the saddle; repeat this several times, each time raising yourself a little higher from the block, until he will allow you to raise your leg over his croop, and place yourself in the saddle.

 If it's a sunny day, I could go to the park.

 Whatever happens, I know it will be a good day tomorrow.

 Yes.

 Whatever happens.

 Whatever happens I know it will be a good day tomorrow.

 A good day.

 A good day tomorrow.

 Good.

 BARRY:

 This is a whisper from the other side.

 

 Whoever did this to me -- I don't know who you are, because I didn't see you. You came up from behind so quickly. Whoever you are, I just want to say, I'm sorry, for whatever it was I did. I don't bear a grudge, and I won't haunt you.

 

 I did so many things.

 

 I'm sorry to that kid in the children's home, whose name I don't even remember, whose sandwich I snatched and then stamped on, and made him eat it.

 

 I'm sorry to that homeless guy I spat on.

 

 I'm sorry to all those people I stole from when I hit hard times. It was only because I needed the money. I got no pleasure from it.

 

 I'm sorry to all the people I lived with, who probably thought I was an irritating tosser. You were all right to think that.

 

 I'm especially sorry to Foxy, for flicking those crisps at her the day before I died.

 

 I'm sorry, Foxy. Truth is, I quite liked you. There's something about you that I can't quite explain. It doesn't matter now.

 

 Finally, I just wanted to say sorry to myself.

 

 Sorry, Barry.

 

 I'm so sorry, Barry.

 

 Things could have been so, so very different.

 

 Is anyone actually listening?

 TV:

 ...and the areas affected especially are the south-west of England, southern Wales --

 ...all around it. The fish are not related to the crocodiles,

 but they're just as crafty. The crocodile fish has these

 quite elaborate painted eyelids around his eyeballs.

 Wow, they're cool! But why?

 Well, it's to disguise their eyes from predators and prey,

 because when you're underwater, open eyes make you

 stand out, so this is a cunning way of watching your prey

 and predators without --

 Now, this week we're giving away a Chevrolet Matiz each day plus a thousand pounds to help pay the car's bills. All you have to do is answer the question correctly and you could win that car.

 Which classic Michael Caine movie saw Mini Coopers racing round the streets of Turin?

 The French Job

 The Italian Job

 The Swedish Job

 To enter --

 Leave me alone, OK?

 Hold it right there, you little twerp.

 Who are you?

 Who am I? I'm someone who can crush

 you into fine powder, that's who I am.

 Carry on, Noddy. And thank you. I'll check your work tomorrow morning.

 Yes sir! Can I wear your hat, Mr Plod?

 What? Wear my official hat? Impossible! What makes you think you qualify to wear a policeman's official uniform?

 ...so much better.

 I saved over one hundred pounds on my car insurance.

 The new website is a winner. I absolutely love it.

 It was as romantic as some old movie on the Late Show. Well, as romantic as my parents got, anyway. But then, I guess he was in a hurry.

 Shall I stick with Redcoating, shall I go to the cast?

 I'm still in two minds because a lot of people were

 saying, "Stay as a Redcoat." "Go to the cast."

 "Stay as a Redcoat."

 ...prejudice against spilling one's blood on one's own doorstep. It makes a mess of the house.

 You'll make a mess whatever you do.

 Can you explain to be, doctor, scientifically, what happens to a resolve when you put the barrel to your head, pull the trigger, the hammer clicks and nothing happens? Shall I blame myself for not remembering that powder gets damp very quickly in this damn Cornish atmosphere and that I should have brought some dry, or say it was just fate?

 Look at that price!

 Ho-ho! Love it!

 This is an advert we filmed last summer, these are just coming into flowers, and these are astonishing. These are up to twelve inches across -- this summer, Dale! ... You're getting four of these -- four of these plants -- each one is going to produce up to sixty huge flowers.

 Sixty? You know, six would've been great. Sixty?!

 Can I just say, that's amazing, because you won't be able to buy some of these plants later in the season. I've seen one of these on the market for eleven pounds fifty for one plant. We've got four in this collection, I'll show you how to plant them up, and they're totally tough and hardy. It's years of colour, years of beauty, years of giant flowers ... It's a major breakthrough in plant breeding -- a major breakthrough. I believe this is the new plant of our generation. I'm so excited about it.

 Well, you see, the thing is, when you say Hibiscus to someone, they think --

 ...and have tried even harder in attention to detail on the car itself -- like an exhaust valve that operates at low speeds to make one's arrival more understated. Not to mention hubs that always keep the double-R perfectly upright. Heated side-glass and hidden vents provide more agreeable indirect ventilation ... And remember, Rolls owners prefer to hold their steering wheels at ten past eight, not ten to two. And I will mention the stereo, with seven-point-one surround sound, nine amplifiers and fifty speakers.

 Mind you, there is the odd bit of beastliness, you know. Everything's not absolutely perfect. These are horrible, cheap, tacky, nasty cup holders. Ashtray's jolly good, though. The size of a landfill site!

 The man, Barry Metcalfe, twenty-six, is believed to have been killed by an intruder.

 Hey, hey, it's Barry! Barry's on the telly!

 Where?

 Look! The picture!

 Well, I never! The jammy bastard!

 That's not funny.

 I wasn't trying to be funny. It's not like he's a celebrity. Anyone can get killed. It doesn't take any real skill, does it?

 S'pose. Is anything else on?

 RAZOR:

 THE CONTENTS OF MY BEDROOM:

 A CARPET. (AN OLD ONE. IT'S FALLING APART.)

 A PILE OF CLOTHES (NO WARDROBE).

 A SMALL STEREO, BUT NO CD'S. I LISTEN TO THE BADLY-TUNED RADIO WHEN I WAKE UP IN THE MORNING (NOT TODAY).

 A BED.

 AN OLD BOOK -- "AWFUL DISCLOSURES, OR THE HIDDEN SECRETS OF A NUN'S LIFE IN A CONVENT EXPOSED" BY MARIA MONK. IT'S FROM 1836. FUCK KNOWS WHERE IT CAME FROM.

 ME.

 AND, AS OF THE LAST FEW HOURS ... SAMANTHA.

 I'M GIDDY.

 I'VE GOT A JOB INTERVIEW TOMORROW. I BOUGHT A SUIT THE OTHER DAY FROM A CHARITY SHOP. IT COST ME FIVE POUNDS. I GOT A LONG BLACK COAT TO WEAR OVER THE TOP OF IT. CRAIG KEEPS SAYING I LOOK LIKE A DETECTIVE FROM AN OLD FILM NOIR. KEEPS GOING ON ABOUT HOW COOL AND RETRO I LOOK. I DON'T REALLY KNOW MUCH ABOUT THAT SORT OF THING.

 I HAD A SHAVE AS WELL. THAT'S ANOTHER THING I'VE GOT IN MY ROOM -- I ALMOST FORGOT. A RAZOR!

 There was a girl thirteen years old whom I knew in the School, who resided in the neighborhood of my mother, and with whom I had been familiar. She told me one day at school of the conduct of a priest with her at confession, at which I was astonished. It was of so criminal and shameful a nature, I could hardly believe it, and yet I had so much confidence that she spoke the truth, that I could not discredit it.

 I'M SITTING WATCHING SAMANTHA SLEEP. SHE WAKES, STRETCHES, SMILES. SHE EMITS THE SMALLEST AND SWEETEST OF SOUNDS. SHE IS LIKE A CHILD BEING BORN.

 "HOW LONG HAVE YOU BEEN WATCHING ME?" SHE SAYS.

 "JUST A MOMENT," I SAY. "DO YOU MIND ME WATCHING?"

 "NO," SHE SAYS. "IT'S NICE."

 She was partly persuaded by the priest to believe that he could not sin, because he was a priest, and that anything he did to her would sanctify her; and yet she seemed doubtful how she should act. A priest, she had been told by him, is a holy man, and appointed to a holy office, and therefore what would be wicked in other men, could not be so in him. She told me that she had informed her mother of it, who expressed no anger nor disapprobation, but only enjoined it upon her not to speak of it; and remarked to her, that as priests were not like other men, but holy, and sent to instruct and save us, whatever they did was right. I afterward confessed to the priest that I had heard the story, and had a penance to perform for indulging a sinful curiosity in making inquiries; and the girl had another for communicating it. I afterward learned that other children had been treated in the same manner, and also of similar proceedings in other places.

 THERE'S SO MUCH I WANT TO SAY TO HER, BUT I DON'T KNOW HOW TO SAY IT WITHOUT SOUNDING BLUNT, OR JUST PLAIN CRUDE.

 SOMETHING HAPPENED LAST NIGHT. WE SHARED A BED. WE HELD EACH OTHER IN THE DARKNESS, AND I SLEPT SOUNDER THAN I HAVE FOR YEARS. THE NIGHTMARES SEEM HAVE DISAPPEARED.

 JUST LIKE DREAMS, YOU MIGHT SAY.

 Indeed, it was not long before such language was used to me, and I well remember how my views of right and wrong were shaken by it. Another girl at the School, from a place above Montreal, called the Lac, told me the following story of what had occurred recently in that vicinity. A young squaw, called la Belle Marie, (pretty Mary,) had been seen going to confession at the house of the priest, who lived a little out of the village. La Belle Marie was afterwards missed, and her murdered body was found in the river. A knife was also found covered with blood, bearing the priest's name. Great indignation was excited among the Indians, and the priest immediately absconded, and was never heard from again. A note was found on his table addressed to him, telling him to fly if he was guilty.

 "HOW ARE YOU FEELING?" SHE SAYS.

 "GREAT," I SAY. "I'M FEELING GREAT."

 "WHAT'S ON YOUR MIND?" SHE SAYS.

 "IT'S DIFFICULT FOR ME TO SAY."

 "IT'S OK, RAZOR. YOU CAN TELL ME ANYTHING."

 "OK, I'LL TELL YOU. BUT FIRST I HAVE TO MAKE SURE YOU REALISE THAT WHAT I'M ABOUT TO TELL YOU ISN'T IMPORTANT."

 SHE EYES ME, PLAYFULLY. "ARE YOU SURE IT'S NOT IMPORTANT?" SHE SAYS.

 "MAYBE ON ONE LEVEL," I SAY, "BUT ON ANOTHER LEVEL, IT'S IRRELEVANT. MEANINGLESS."

 It was supposed that the priest was fearful that his conduct might be betrayed by this young female; and he undertook to clear himself by killing her.

 "WHAT IS IT?" SHE SAYS.

 "THE BEAST," I SAY. "THAT'S WHAT THEY CALL IT, ISN'T IT? "THE BEAST WITH TWO BACKS"? I'M FEELING BETTER ABOUT IT. I FEEL LIKE I CAN MAYBE TRY DOING IT AGAIN."

 SHE SMILES. "THAT'S REALLY THINGY," SHE SAYS. SHE LOOKS LIKE SHE MEANS IT, TOO.

 "AND IT'S ALL THANKS TO YOU," I TELL HER. "WHAT HAPPENED LAST NIGHT..."

 "IT'S OK," SHE SAYS. "IT'S OK."

 I HOLD HER CLOSE.

 I HOPE SHE UNDERSTANDS WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT. WE'RE FRIENDS. BEST FRIENDS. SOME EXCHANGES IN LIFE ARE MORE INTIMATE.

 IT ISN'T IMPORTANT.

 IT'S MEANINGLESS.

 THIS IS WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT.

 RIGHT HERE, RIGHT NOW.

 I WANT TO FREEZE-FRAME FOR A LIFETIME.

 SAMANTHA:

 I had the greatest day today. It was Barry's funeral.

 Barry doesn't have any family, and as far as anyone knows, he never had any friends outside these four damp walls. He didn't really have any friends in here, either.

 It's thingy. It doesn't feel thingy, but it ought to be thingy. It'd be thingy if it were someone else.

 Social services came round the other day, asking about the arrangements. The cops have done the autopsy now, and the body's been released. They've already given us the go-ahead to bury him. No one who lives here has got any money to speak of, so we got a no-frills budget job, courtesy of the taxpayer. Cremation, a token religious ceremony, no flowers.

 Craig said there needed to be flowers. "My word, imagine a funeral with no flowers!" he said. "Wouldn't that be ghastly?"

 Craig took over the running of the funeral. He had the idea that we could all chip in fifty pounds each to send Barry off in some kind of thingumy. Style. Everyone agreed, apart from Gogo, who said we should keep our money and fuck the funeral. Typical him, all over. We had a vote on it, and everyone else was in favour of Craig. Gogo wasn't going to pay up until Pet twisted his arm. He sulked in his room for two days after that. Occasionally, we'd hear him and Pet arguing. I'm not sure I know how long that's going to last.

 I can't say I'm disappointed. It's the way of the world. One relationship ends, and another begins. She can do so much better than that whatsit, anyway.

 SAVE MEAT

 REASONS WHY OUR GOVERNMENT HAS ASKED US TO SAVE MEAT WITH PRACTICAL RECIPES FOR MEAT CONSERVATION

 As a nation we eat and waste 80 per cent. more meat than we require to maintain health. This statement, recently issued by the United States Food Administration, is appalling when we consider that there is a greater demand for meat in the world to-day than ever before, coupled with a greatly decreased production. The increase in the demand for meat and animal products is due to the stress of the war. Millions of men are on the fighting line doing hard physical labor, and require a larger food allowance than when they were civilians. To meet the demand for meat and to save their grains, our Allies have been compelled to kill upward of thirty-three million head of their stock animals, and they have thus stifled their animal production. This was burning the candle at both ends, and they now face increased demand handicapped by decreased production.

 Razor's been keeping a low whatsit since we shared a bed the other night. He's been up at the crack of dawn every day looking for work.

 I've done something I said I wasn't going to try to do. I've fixed him. Maybe that's the only way you can really fix someone -- when you're not trying to. When you don't even consider them to be broken.

 America must fill the breach. Not only must we meet the present increased demand, but we must be prepared as the war advances to meet an even greater demand for this most necessary food. The way out of this serious situation is first to reduce meat consumption to the amount really needed and then to learn to use other foods that will supply the food element which is found in meat. This element is called protein, and we depend upon it to build and repair body tissues.

 Although most persons believe that protein can only be obtained from meat, it is found in many other foods, such as milk, skim milk, cheese, cottage cheese, poultry, eggs, fish, dried peas, beans, cow peas, lentils and nuts. For instance, pound for pound, salmon, either fresh or canned, equals round steak in protein content; cream cheese contains one-quarter more protein and three times as much fat; peanuts (hulled) one-quarter more protein and three and a half times as much fat; beans (dried) a little more protein and one-fifth as much fat; eggs (one dozen) about the same in protein and one-half more fat. It is our manifest duty to learn how to make the best use of these foods in order to save beef, pork and mutton, to be shipped across the sea. This means that the housekeeper has before her the task of training the family palate to accept new food preparations. Training the family palate is not easy, because bodies that have grown accustomed to certain food combinations find it difficult to get along without them, and rebel at a change. If these habits of diet are suddenly disturbed we may upset digestion, as well as create a feeling of dissatisfaction which is equally harmful to physical well-being. The wise housekeeper will therefore make her changes gradually.

 Craig took a week off work to organise it all. Compassionate thingy. I told him how sweet it was of him putting all this effort in for Barry's sake, but he just shrugged and said, "I love screwing my boss over. He's got to give me compassionate leave if I ask for it, especially if my best friend has just died. That's right -- I told him Barry was my best friend. How awful is that?"

 I'm sure he was just being modest.

 He wanted to read something moving during the service. I said maybe he could read that W.H. Auden poem, "Funeral Blues." They read it at my granddad's funeral. It's the one from the funeral scene in Four Weddings and a Funeral.

 Why do I keep saying funeral? I don't know why, but I like the word. I like the sound of it -- fun-er-al. I like the sound of "funeral" more than I like the sound of "wedding".

 Craig said he couldn't read the Auden poem. It didn't fit Barry's personality. He wasn't anyone's "North, South, East or West." He was just Barry. What could you say about Barry that was moving or fitting or whatsit?

 Craig went off to his favourite antiquated bookshop to ask for advice, and came back with a book called "Foods That Will Win The War And How To Cook Them" by C. Houston Goudiss and Alberta M. Goudiss.

 "It's from 1918," he said. "A propaganda cookbook -- how delightful is that?"

 "What about the funeral poem?" I said.

 "They had plenty of those," he said, "but I couldn't find anything suitable. Maybe I'll read something from this."

 "I suppose it seems as good a book as any," I said.

 In reducing meat in the diet of a family that has been used to having meat twice a day, it will be well to start out with meat once a day and keep up this régime for a couple of weeks. Then drop meat for a whole day, supplying in its stead a meat substitute dish that will furnish the same nutriment. After a while you can use meat substitutes at least twice a week without disturbing the family's mental or physical equilibrium. It would be well also to introduce dishes that extend the meat flavor, such as stews combined with dumplings, hominy, or rice; pot pies or short cakes with a dressing of meat and vegetables; meat loaf, souffle or croquettes in which meat is combined with bread crumbs, potato or rice.

 The day went perfectly. Craig wore a sexy black dress, with fishnet tights. Razor wore his new suit. He felt self-conscious about it not being black, because Dunder and Gogo were wearing black suits. He didn't have a black tie, so Craig spray-painted a white one for him. That was a nice touch.

 There were eight of us in the church, including the priest. Nine if you included Barry. Me, Razor, Pet, Gogo, Dunder, Foxy and Craig were lined up in the front pew like the Usual Suspects. A thingy kind of family.

 The boys carried the coffin. It was touching to see Craig and Gogo working together without bickering for a change.

 It's been years since I stepped inside a church. It's so peaceful in there. I like the whiff of the incense. It smells like Foxy's room. Dunder told me sometimes he goes into a church just to sit there, and take it all in. He doesn't believe in whatsit, it's just a place to go sometimes and contemplate. Maybe I'll start going on a Sunday morning. It'd be a hell of a hangover cure.

 We went back to the house for the wake. Craig and Razor had cleared everything out of the living room, so we could all mingle in there together. It was like a completely different house. The walls were all white. Craig put out some beanbags to sit on. There was a stereo in the corner and a table by the window with the food on. Craig had laid out a buffet, with enough drinks to last us for weeks -- even with Dunder around. The food was a real nostalgia trip. Jelly and ice cream, Dairylee and crackers, cheese and pineapple on a stick. It was Craig all over.

 Craig's got one of those multiple CD players with a shuffle on it. We each put in a CD of our choice, and stuck it on random selection so we'd all get an equal share. I cheated, I'm afraid to say, and put in two of mine. I only did it to make up for the fact that Razor doesn't own any CD's. And seen as we're together now ... well not officially ... not that he knows it yet ...

 You can tell a lot about someone from the CD they pick to be played at their housemate's funeral. Craig picked Abba. Gogo picked Iron Maiden. Pet picked The Pixies. Foxy picked The Cure. Dunder picked Vivaldi's Four Seasons. I picked my two favourite disco compilations. Everyone cheered when the stereo blasted out I Will Survive.

 I got chatting to Dunder. We started talking about murder.

 "Can killing ever be justified?" I asked him.

 "You mean like in wartime?"

 "In any time."

 "Only in self-defence," he said. "The only time you can ever justify killing another human being is when you're protecting yourself, or other people. It's avoidable in any other circumstance."

 "What about revenge?" I said. "If someone has already done something. Already killed. Already thingied. Ruined people's lives. Should they be killed then?"

 "Of course not."

 "Should they be locked up?"

 "Maybe, maybe not. They'll be punished enough by their own consciences. What does it matter if they're punished officially or not?"

 "I totally agree," I said. "I've been messed around by people in the past. People have treated me thingumy. But I'm out of there now. I've got no desire to carry out any "revenge attacks" -- that's just crazy. They can't get at me now."

 "Quite," he said. Then he said something slightly odd. He said, "So you can cross me off your list, then."

 "What?"

 "You can cross me off your list."

 "What list?"

 "Your list of suspects!" He burst out laughing.

 It was funny, I suppose. I think I got the joke. I laughed, anyway.

 Meat eating is largely a matter of flavor. If flavor is supplied, the reduction of meat in the diet can be made with little annoyance. Nutrition can always be supplied in the other dishes that accompany the meal, as a certain proportion of protein is found in almost every food product. The meat that we use to obtain flavor in sauces and gravies need not be large in quantity, nor expensive in cut. The poor or cheap cuts have generally more flavor than the expensive ones, the difference being entirely in texture and tenderness, freedom from gristle and inedible tissue. There are many cereals, such as rice, hominy, cornmeal, samp and many vegetable dishes, especially dried beans of all kinds, that are greatly improved by the addition of meat sauce and when prepared in this way may be served as the main dish of a meal.

 Razor spent most of the party talking to Foxy. They were sitting in the corner together on a couple of beanbags. I wasn't jealous, or anything. It's not like there's anything to be jealous about.

 I've got a lot of respect for Foxy. She's like the ugly duckling who never turned into the swan. It can't be easy for her looking so hideous, but she carries it well. She's got a certain sophisticated quality. The whole "gothic" thing helps.

 Dunder caught me looking at them, and smiled. He could tell straight away -- he's so perceptive.

 "Do you think he loves you too?"

 I giggled and hid behind my fringe. "I don't know. I don't know if I'm thingy enough for him."

 "Now, now, Samantha, that's nonsense. You're a wonderful woman."

 "You think so?"

 "I'm sure young Razor thinks so. Get in there quick, that's what I say. Get in there quick before he gets away!"

 I hugged him. "Thanks, Dunder. You're so wise."

 "Oh, I could teach you a few things, young lady," he said.

 "I bet you could."

 "So you're going to go for it, then?"

 "Of course."

 Dunder seemed extremely pleased. He grinned like a clown, and went off to his room.

 I carried on drinking.

 Dr. Harvey W. Wiley has stated that the meat eating of the future will not be regarded as a necessity so much as it has been in the past, and that meat will be used more as a condimental substance. Europe has for years used meat for flavor rather than for nutriment. It would seem that the time has come for Americans to learn the use of meat for flavor and to utilize more skillfully the protein of other foods.

 Can I ask you a question, Craig? Answer me honestly.

 What is it?

 Who paid for the beanbags? Did it come out of the funeral fund?

 They were part of the funeral costs, my friend.

 "Friend"? Oh, you think we're still "friends," do you?

 Gogo, I think you may have had a little too much to drink.

 Don't patronise me, you fucking freak. Taking the moral fucking high ground...

 Truth be told, there's one beanbag each. That way, everyone can keep one when the party's over.

 And we've all paid for them? Without being asked if we wanted one?

 They're priced at around three pounds each. Can I offer you a refund?

 Did I ask for a beanbag?

 I just thought it might be nice...

 ANSWER THE FUCKING QUESTION YOU PIECE OF SHIT! DID I ASK FOR A BEANBAG?

 OK. Don't raise your voice.

 ANSWER THE QUESTION.

 No, you didn't ask for a beanbag. Is that so awful? It's a present.

 Oh! It's a present! Thank you your majesty! So thoughtful of you to buy your subjects a fucking present! I'm fed up of it, Craig. I'm fed up of living under your fucking rules. We didn't ask for any of this, but you did it anyway!

 Gogo, we took a democratic vote.

 BUT IT'S A RIGGED ELECTION, CRAIG! IT'S ALWAYS A RIGGED FUCKING ELECTION! DO YOU KNOW WHY IT'S A RIGGED ELECTION? YOU PROBABLY DON'T EVEN REALISE, DO YOU?

 I expect you're going to tell me.

 We all vote, but you're the one who decides on what we vote on. Like, "What sort of music shall we have?" What if we don't want music at all?

 You could've abstained. Then there's more quality tunes for the rest of us, instead of that ghastly heavy metal.

 You're missing the point! You're taking charge of everyone, all the time! Everything, EVERYTHING is dictated by what mood you happen to be in at the time. Christ's sake -- a cookery book from nineteen eighteen? What the fuck?

 It may be difficult to convince the meat lover that he can radically reduce the proportion of meat in his diet without detriment to health. Many persons adhere to the notion that you are not nourished unless you eat meat; that meat foods are absolutely necessary to maintain the body strength. This idea is entirely without foundation, for the foods mentioned as meat substitutes earlier in this chapter can be made to feed the world, and feed it well--in fact, no nation uses so large a proportion of meat as America.

 Razor swooped in and saved the day when Craig and Gogo started having a fight. In a way, I was disappointed. I wanted to see who'd win. What I'd really like to have seen is Craig beating the whatsit out of Gogo in his sexy black dress. It would've made a great video.

 Do people make funeral videos? There's a business opportunity. Someone should've filmed today, that's for sure. It may not be the greatest thingy of my life, but it's up there with losing my virginity, and that time I went hang-gliding. I loved it. I love life, I love Razor, and I love living in this house.

 If only I hadn't drank so much.

 The room's spinning.

 I wonder where Razor is.

 Night night.

 CRAIG:

 I've got a confession to make. It's awful, really. I think this whole thing with Foxy's getting out of hand. That's the only way I can explain my behaviour. Am I in love with her? I don't think I've ever been in love. Not sure I've got the stomach for it. But this girl, she's something else. Jesus H. Christ, I can't stop thinking about her.

 I stole her knickers. I went in her room and snatched them from the laundry basket she keeps under the bed. I took them into my room, lay down and buried my face in them for forty-five minutes, breathing in her fumes. I've been wearing them since then. I wore them to the funeral yesterday. Thank heavens no one looked up my skirt. That would've been awful. I slept in them too. I'm still wearing them now. I like the idea of my privates touching hers in a second-hand fashion. I like second-hand things, after all. I prefer them to new.

 I know it's never going to happen for us now, though. Not after this morning. It started with the creaking noise from Foxy's room. I suppose I was just being protective. I didn't even knock, I just barged straight in. I certainly wasn't expecting to see what I saw. Surely not. My God, it was awful. Surely my eyes were deceiving me. Surely it wasn't Razor and Foxy. Foxy and Razor, naked together in her bed, in her duvet that her and I once shared, fleetingly, what might as well have been a lifetime ago. He might as well have taken a pair of socks to my throat -- that's how upset I was. That's how angry I was.

 I said, "You murdering bastard."

 He said, "WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?"

 I said, "You know what I'm taking about, "Razor" -- or whatever your stupid name is! I saw you! I was there! I saw you killing Barry with those socks! I saw you stab him!"

 Foxy was frantically crawling out from underneath him and covering herself up. "Craig, you've picked a bad time to start making accusations," she said.

 "No," I said, "I think this is the perfect time."

 I must've been shouting quite loudly, because everyone heard.

 Dunder came running out from his room saying, "What's going on?"

 Pet and Gogo didn't come out of their room, but I could hear their voices -- "What the fuck is going on?" - "How the fuck should I know?" It sounds like they're breaking up, which can only be a good thing. After our little debacle last night, Gogo announced that he's moving out, so there's an added bonus.

 Samantha came out of her room, and God bless her, as soon as she set eyes on Foxy's bed, she was screaming louder than any of us -- "Oh my God! Oh my God, I can't look!" She ran down the stairs, unable to stand the sight before her.

 Razor was frantically climbing into his jeans. "That's right," I said. "Get dressed. You'll need a good strong pair of trousers where you're going."

 He said, "I DON'T UNDERSTAND, CRAIG. WHY ARE YOU SAYING THESE THINGS? WHAT HAVE I DONE TO YOU?"

 "Don't I speak the truth?" I said. "You did it after all, didn't you? You killed Barry. Of course you killed Barry."

 "WHY WOULD I KILL BARRY?"

 "Why not? Why the hell wouldn't you? You don't care about other people. It's as simple as that."

 "PLEASE, CRAIG. DON'T DO THIS. I'M BEGGING YOU, DON'T DO THIS."

 "Don't do this, Craig," said Foxy.

 "I'm sorry," I told her. "You may not understand this now, but it's for the best."

 The phone was in my hand. I felt Dunder's hand on my back as I dialled the third nine. I couldn't tell if he were trying to comfort me or just leaning in so he could hear the conversation better.

 We all remained silent as they took Razor away. He wasn't kicking and screaming. His head was bowed, not wanting to meet Samantha's eyes as he passed her. Samantha just sat there and watched. She didn't comment on it. She didn't cry.

 Foxy was in a flood of silent tears. She still had her makeup on from last night -- black eyeliner streamed down her cheeks. Dunder had already cracked open his first beer of the day, and in his own way, he was happy. Silence emitted from Pet and Gogo's room, which probably isn't even Pet and Gogo's room any more. Someone had to break the silence. We sat there in the living room, not daring to say a word, hardly daring to breathe.

 I had to say something. I was just trying to lighten the tone, I swear. I said, "Anyone for Cluedo?"

 Dunder found this hysterical, but I couldn't laugh along with him, not after seeing the look on the girls' faces. Samantha shot me the sharpest of glares. Foxy looked as though I'd smacked her across the face.

 I still can't believe I said it. "Anyone for Cluedo?"?! How awful is that? Really, seriously -- how awful?

 THE END.


 Every afternoon the rains, as they had for generations, swept in from the saltlands to the west and drove the scavengers into the shelter of the ruins ringing the lagoon. The sky grayed, and wind, pungent with ozone and canebrake, flung stinging flights of droplets into the dank concrete holes.

 The Fox Man ran from squat to squat, warning. "Big storm coming." He wore an outfit of scraggy orange fur, scabrous and holed, and as he pranced past, fat raindrops spattered his costume to a blotchy patchwork. Women set out plastic jugs, gathered utensils, and shoveled coals from cooking fires into logs to hustle indoors. Naked children danced in the puddles.

 Donal paid no mind to either the storm or the Fox Man, but he always had to smile at that fancy outfit, in a World of loincloths and grass skirts. To Donal, the costume looked more like a dog, though for effect the Fox Man -- or someone who owed him a favor, he was no Hunter -- had hung a poorly preserved fox head from a leather necklace. All Donal wore was a deerskin belt in which was tucked a roughly hammered machete. His dozen braves followed behind like ducklings, spread out in a widening wake; the first rank had knives, as befitting his sidemen, but Donal alone carried a blade longer than his hand.

 Donal and his pack had come in on the south side of the canal, and trooped past three ruins before he split off to his squat in the center. The two-story brick building was still standing -- unlike some of the neighboring metal structures which had long ago rusted and collapsed inward -- and while parts of the heavy stone roof and windows were gone, generations had fashioned replacements with tree trunks and grasses to maintain a weatherproof refuge. The second floor, with its huge rotted gathering place, was unstable; they never used it. But there was space for dozens of families downstairs, in the low oval room ringed with twelve pillars past which hung tattered remnants of pictures and signs in the script of the World builders.

 The squat's position, its construction, and these ancient artifacts on the walls, gave it pride of place among folk at the lagoon. The squatters defended it ferociously, and Donal was its leading fighter.

 He paused in the portico, blinking water out of his eyes, watching stragglers run for cover and canoes out on the lagoon pulling for shore. He could pick out the foreign visitors -- outsiders -- wandering aimlessly, sight-seers among the ruins even in this far corner of the World. Just a handful; nowhere near the number over at the Castle.

 Donal wiped rain off his body, threaded effortlessly through the families crouched on pallets of palm leaves and grasses around the big room. A dim shaft of green stormlight picked out the faces watching from deep in the recesses, and as he walked by, he saw flickering shadows across their troubled eyes.

 The rain was nothing new; storms rolled through predictably every afternoon, tiny mirrors of the much larger shift in the seasons. Each wheel of the year the rains started a little earlier; the bogs drained more slowly. The cultivated lands ran riot with grasses and weeds. The horses had nowhere to run. New trackways had to be built across the fens to the Castle each spring.

 Donal found his way to the tiny pallet he shared with his five-year-old brother, a tiny square against the wall opposite the doorway, beneath one of the frayed signs of the Builders. He was used to the hunting, but today his gang had traveled all the way down by the World Tree, clearing paths and setting snares, and his shoulders ached from the daylong exertion. He missed his brother, left to be watched over by the other families in the squat when the work was dangerous. Donal trusted they would never leave him alone. Donal laid his machete at the foot of the mat and retrieved the small leather bag that held his most prized possessions, tied it again to his belt.

 Ewen was waiting for him. He somehow managed to stay clean among the general filth in the squat. Ewen leaned against the wall, knees pulled up to his chest, looking exactly the way Donal remembered him. Donal was always struck by his skin, unnaturally white like their mother's had been.

 #

 "Ergot," chirped Ewan, pointing. In front of him sat a lap-top memory-box with fragrant tufts of greenery poking from its partitioned slots. It was a rough-hewn affair, knocked together from scraps of wood by the acolytes of Emic. The wise women came by with fresh bits of plants and stories to jog memories, mostly of the elderly who tended the gardens and foraged for nuts and berries. Donal thought they must like his brother to give him one of the boxes; it certainly couldn't be for him. He didn't care about memory. Not remembering things, frankly, made it easier to do what was necessary.

 Ewan, on the other hand, was young. The forgetting had not fully gripped him, and the whole world, nameable and retrievable, whirled incessantly at the tips of his fingers and tongue. Donal could almost remember what it was like to remember. Sometimes Ewan helped him, prompting, a whisper in his ear.

 "Amanita muscaria!" cheeped Ewan.

 Most children without mothers did nowhere near this well. Whatever the forgetting was, those fed at their mother's breast managed to fight it off for a year or two. Ewen was lucky for someone who had only been nursed occasionally by kind women in the squat, with Donal his sole caretaker since their mother died giving birth.

 At least they had been able to eat her. When the wise women came to cut her up, while there was sadness at her passing with child, they found nothing bad.

 His father, unfortunately, was a different story. He had been killed by a wolf on a hunting party when Donal was Ewen's age. When the women opened him, he was full of tumors. It was a troubling sadness; he had shown no sign, had been vigorous and healthy, but then he was dead, Ewen was now the responsible one, and they could not even share his father's flesh, leaving it instead for the wolves. May they be poisoned and die, Donal thought.

 "Banisteria Caapi," Ewen pointed in the box. Donal smiled at him, nodded. "Banisteria Caapi," he repeated, scrunching up leaves so they could both take a nap.

 He had slept under the same faded signs ("Letters," Ewen constantly reminded him) -- arrow head-forked branch-standing zigzag -- since he was a child. His parents parents had staked out a the space not long after the dawn of the World, and it was the only home he had ever known. He drifted to sleep with the reassuring smells of sweat and wood smoke, lulled by the spatter and drip of rain through the ceiling.

 #

 When he awoke it was dark. He rolled over, grabbed his machete, and headed out back to pee. The reek of fermenting night soil was like a soft wet fist in his nose. A row of trenches marched off across the field behind the squat, each turned over to start a new one as they filled. Donal thought it was past time.

 Back in the main room, the cooks had been working in their huge pot, one left over from the World Builders, which tonight held a bubbling stew of fish and late summer vegetables. Then it was time for everyone to come out of their squats and join hands for the evening chant, while six boats with priestesses of Emic circled the lagoon carrying their fires. Their acolytes, in dark robes and veils, set up on the paths, ladling drinks from black cauldrons. Donal knocked his back quickly; the taste was bitter, and almost immediately started up a vague itching sensation behind his eyes; within a few minutes, everything seemed to get wider, as if the world was being squashed. It was not an unpleasant sensation, and he walked with Ewen down to the lagoon, finding the hands of people next to him almost automatically.

 Out of the earliest mist of childhood, one of the few things Donal could remember was this service, repeated, every night. Even so, he would still find himself forgetting the words if he didn't concentrate, as the sound of the big drums began from the squat next door.

 "One World," came the chant. "One World for all."

 The priestesses were spinning flaming balls on slings, and lofting them high to fall, hissing, into the lagoon.

 "One moon. One sun. One World to hold the fallen sparks."

 Donal joined in as he watched the flaming arcs over the lagoon with languid fascination. The chanting, well, that was just words. He believed far more in his machete and the men who followed him than in anything the priestesses said. The Castle was no more and no less than the rest of the World. Older, perhaps, but it held no interest for him.

 Occasionally, the high priestess -- Emic herself -- would show up at the ceremony, wearing her sleek black costume and grotesque mask, but tonight was not one of those times, and, a bit disappointed, the group slowly dispersed.

 When he got back to his squat, a woman and child were lying on his pallet. The woman looked middle-aged -- but so, of course, did everyone, once they were older than about Donal's sixteen years.

 "Out," he said. "My space." His neighbors, filtering in, were dimly visible in the torchlight from the entrance. A murmuring began, and groups jiggled and poked each other, drifting over to watch.

 "My girl and I need a place to sleep. We were in the Volcano squat, but your gang has taken over. They're throwing out older women."

 Donal knew this. A group of his junior squad members lived in the Volcano ruin, and they had been complaining about some of the dispossessed who had not been obliging company.

 "Not my problem. This is my space."

 "My daughter and I need a place to sleep. We thought you might be willing to share."

 "No. Get out."

 "I knew your mother. She and I used to dig for shining wire together as children. I used to take care of you sometimes. Don't you remember?"

 "No."

 "Please. We could cook for you. You have two whole pallets," begged the woman. "What do you need all that space for?"

 "For my brother, Ewen."

 She looked at him. Her child, a smudged-faced girl of four or five, was half-huddled behind her, wide-eyed, looking at where Donal had his hand on Ewen's head, then back to his face.

 The woman saw she was gaining no ground, changed tactics. "You could take me as a mate," she said, shifting the front of her grass skirt.

 Ewen turned away with an "Eeew."

 Donal grabbed the woman's arm, pulled her to her feet. The little girl screamed.

 She slapped his face, a stinging blow that made his left eye water. He felt a trickle of blood in his eyebrow; he hadn't seen she was wearing a ring. She curled to deliver a kick to his stones, but he pushed her back, and she fell, off balance, against the wall.

 Out came the machete.

 He raised the blade, started to swing, then realized she was hunching over, protecting her daughter. At the last instant, he lunged forward, sending not the blade but his fist on the matted fiber handle into the woman's face. Blood ran from her nose and she whimpered softly. Gathered up her girl, limped off his mat.

 "You are a crazy evil fuck," she said. "And you..." she turned on the squatters who ringed them, watching. "You should all be ashamed. Using someone like this. You are animals. This land is not fit for humans."

 She took her daughter by the hand and left.

 "Hard fucking core," someone muttered. Neighbors patted him on the back, but he did not feel reassured.

 "Come on, Ewen," he said. "Let's get some sleep."

 He saw that the Fox Man had slipped in and was watching from the shadows. By tomorrow, this would be all over the World.

 #

 When Ewen had fallen asleep, Donal rolled over and coupled with the woman on the next pallet, quickly and efficiently. She seemed to enjoy it, and her husband was used to this and seemed not to mind. Although, Donal guessed, he hardly could have said anything if he did.

 #

 The next day, Donal let his junior braves go off to check the traps. He had enough of a reputation, and in the World, reputation was all that mattered. He made sure to be there with them for the hard work of clearing brush, but he was a good boss who let them take credit for kills and bring meat back to their squats. Instead, he wandered over the trackway to watch the action at the front gate. It was partly idle mooning over the fine blades on display, and partly hope that something violent and entertaining might happen.

 It was a typical morning at the Castle. A line of outsiders, families mostly, milled in the damp, steamy sunshine waiting to get into the grounds. They had to pass through gates where Castle guards were inspecting for weapons, poking through bags and under skirts of the farmers and foreigners, and taking their trinkets and goods in trade for admission. Even in decay, their Castle was the tallest building in a week's walk. Outsiders were willing to offer perfectly good food and trinkets for a visit, even though there was no guarantee they would get to see Emic.

 The sun was only up about four fingers, and already the air was humid and stifling. In addition to the ever-present mosquitoes, biting black flies hovered, lured perhaps by the crusting cut on Donal's face. These flies were new. Every year, it seemed, there were more flying pests, bigger and nastier. Though, he thought, if he were a bug, he might see things differently. The insane plant growth made it a paradise for insects. He wished he had ten arms and ten machetes.

 Donal elbowed into the line at the gate, silencing outsider muttering with a hand on his weapon, and spend the wait watching the Castle gang strip and harass anyone who put up a fuss. Once again he envied those lucky enough to be born in this part of the World: they made sure everyone on the line had wicked blades. There was no local smith who matched the fine metalwork of the village to the northeast who ripped and sawed apart the fallen hulks of their strange, curving buildings and melted them down. Donal had made the trip to take delivery of his machete, and had seen the grimy knife makers, with their leather aprons and huge muscular arms amid the perpetual smell of hard charcoal smoke.

 Arming everyone with such weapons cost a lot in trade, but when there was trouble at the gate, it was over quickly. And on those nights, they ate like kings.

 "Can we go see Emic?" Ewen interrupted his thoughts.

 "Ewen, it's really hard to..."

 "Pleeeease?"

 "Okay. We can try."

 #

 The Castle had clearly once been a serene dream of perfection, dark stone blocks with pale bricks inset in attractive, rhythmic patterns; all meticulously worked, craftsmanship of the highest order. There must have been pinnacles and banners, fences and ironwork, a riot of decoration, and it had surely been home to a very important royal family. But all that was not stone had been eaten away by plants and the perpetual drip of water. The Castle they approached now, amid outsiders chittering in strange accents and pointing at everything, was a tumbled ruin, slumped in the soil and grasses of many seasons. Vines and creepers covered much of the visible structure, some native, some planted by the priestesses.

 "YagÃ©," Ewen pointed.

 They seemed to be in luck. A group was gathering beneath the surviving balcony fronting the moat. An acolyte dressed in a tattered green costume was doing a familiar call-and-response with the crowd, something Donal had no use for, but Ewen seemed to find comforting. She was clearly meant to be some kind of bug, the costume stuffed and rounded so that only her hands and feet stuck out.

 The green bug worked the crowd into a soft frenzy, then left them to wait, a sea of sweaty faces with anxious eyes, eager for a once-in-a-lifetime glimpse of the priestess.

 Donal had seen her, many times, so he was prepared, but the outsiders in the crowd gasped and recoiled. Emic wore an outfit of black fabric -- actual, made-by-the-World-builders fabric, patched and stitched meticulously. It was smooth and slick and glinted when she moved, dancing and leaping around the balcony.

 And then, there was the mask.

 It covered her whole head and was easily twice as big, with an enormous painted face, huge eyes, and a gaping, smiling mouth. It had always seemed to Donal the face of a small mammal; not a fox, but a skunk, perhaps, or a possum. There were seams on the side of the head where something -- horns, maybe? -- had been attached. How long ago? He marveled at how the priestesses had managed to keep this one icon in pristine condition. He could understand why the pilgrims felt

 the magic in it, even if he did not.

 "Estamos refugiados en una zona de apagon." The priestess, in a high, squeaky voice, rained down nonsense from the balcony. "Nuestras casas desarraigados, arrastrando raÃ­ces profundas de concreta, fibrosas con tubos y conectores, giran y saltan a las fluctuaciones del campo de gravitacion. Â La gente tienen miedo." She droned on like that, and Donal found himself scanning the crowd, idly yet thoroughly, to see if anyone unsavory might have snuck through the front gate.

 There had been a small group, armed with pieces of metal no larger than their fingernails but sharpened enough to cut, and they had slipped in and managed to kill a handful of guests and Castle workers before they were hacked to bits. The memory was bitterly fresh. But no one in the group of soft, milling sheep around Donal seemed like a threat. Eventually, the priestess stopped and the crowd drifted off.

 "Happy?" Donal asked Ewen, who just smiled.

 Donal took the long way home, following the north bank of the canal, and then around past the sunken Dome, over to the Volcano lodge to check on his wild boys. Even though it was only mid-morning, there was a group huddled off in the rear of the squat, beneath the decayed altar under the faded image of a volcano. They had clearly been into the fermented shine already, and there was a good deal of laughter, metal clanging, and shouts of "Glory be to steel!" He could hear cats, mating loudly off in the dank recess of the building. Conscious of Ewen next to him, Donal paused at the front door to the hall, listening to the revelers, invisible past mounds of collapsed ceiling and the squatters' rough lean-tos. He had just decided to skip it and head home when suddenly, there was a figure beside him. It was Fox.

 "Donal. You are wanted."

 "Who?"

 "The Keoh wants to see you."

 The squatters work -- the hunting, cooking, farming -- was purely ad hoc, but there was a loose network of bosses, rolling up to the Keoh who decided all the practical things the priestesses did not. Fox answered to him, and so, ultimately, did Donal.

 "Hunh," said Donal. "Of course, I serve the Keoh. But I don't know where to go."

 Fox slid a rough fiber sack from inside his costume. "On your head," he gestured. "I'll take you."

 "What about Ewen?" said Donal.

 "Oh," smiled the Fox, "The Keoh isn't worried about him."

 #

 Donal's childhood friend, Wally, who had gone off to become a monk, had often tried to explain the alphabet to him. Even as a kid, Wally had seemed like a grownup; the forgetting hit him as it did everyone, but he seemed, if not immune, at least less susceptible. His recall astonished Donal. He couldn't actually remember the alphabet -- such a thing was impossible -- but he could recite the letters off a carving. "moon-fork-sun," Wally had tried to explain to him, pointing to a letter at a time. "Keoh."

 Their paths had slowly diverged after his father's death, when Donal had to begin hunting. Between that and caring for Ewen, he hadn't had time for childish things like alphabets. But at least he could recognize the letters for Keoh, and he saw them now over a doorway as the Fox Man removed his hood to reveal a dripping stone tunnel. The walls were florid with white scale and rising spikes of yellow and black mold; the only illumination ragged holes punched in the ceiling. It smelled like the basements of squats around the lagoon, rank and fungal.

 Donal looked down at Ewen. He was quiet but seemed unafraid.

 Two guards stood before a doorway holding swords. Not the swords of the Castle guards, these were antiques, long, curved blades forged with the skill and craft of the makers of the World.

 "Your weapon," said one of the guards. He surrendered it without question, and the Fox led him in.

 Donal had only met the Keoh once before, in passing, during solstice prayer at the lagoon. He wasn't sure what to expect from the big man's quarters, but he was not anticipating the wild jumble of mysterious junk. The walls were the poured stone of the builders, but jutting irregularly from the spalling surface was a grid of rotting greenish wire, as if the whole room had been, in the past, some sort of bizarre cage. The space was stuffed to bursting with furniture, life-size dolls with human faces, rusting hunks of metal whose function Donal could neither discern nor guess, boxes, made of gray plastic stamped with ancient letter forms, from which poked colored strands of shining wire. Racks along the wall were packed with a profusion of books that would have had Wally goggle-eyed, yet most were furred with black mold. In one corner, the smudged remains of what had been a tall white cylinder tapering to a narrow point at the top, on which the signs for cupâ&#8364;&#8220;snake-arrow head were still faintly visible in a faded red.

 The Keoh sat in an dark leather chair big enough for two people. He was nearly bald, with a paunch and man-boobs, and had the hard face of a bully, his fixed smile a cheerless grimace. The Keoh wore pants; whether as an affectation for company or as part of his everyday dress, Donal could not tell, but they were of a finely-tanned leather, a few shades lighter than the chair. They could not, possibly, have been comfortable. Next to him was a low table at which sat his scribe -- a monk of Etek, as Donal could see, from his red cape. The Keoh was playing dice with the monk when they entered.

 "Donal, sir," the Fox Man said. Donal nodded, he hoped deferentially.

 "So this is our angry young man. My Fox here tells me you are one hardassed motherfucker," said the Keoh, watching Donal's face.

 "I kill my enemies and eat their brains."

 The Keoh raised an eyebrow. Donal saw the opportunity to use a saying that Wally had drilled into him.

 "Some think the soul lives in the heart," he said. "But I know it lives up here," he said, pointing to his head.

 The Keoh barked a laugh. "You're all right, my friend. Have a seat. Let's play." He shook the dice and waved to the guards at the door. "Food and drink." He looked at Donal and his eyes twinkled. "Just no... heh heh... you know." He raised his hand to his head, made a scooping gesture. Laughed. "Yet."

 #

 They sat on the floor around the Keoh's table, dipping handfuls of a fragrant grilled bird-and-vegetable mixture onto plantain leaves. "We can save some time and pass both ways," said the Keoh, handing a plastic bowl of crayfish. The conversation was superficial and yet, thought Donal, somehow charged with meaning. The thread repeatedly slipped away from him, and he had to keep reminding Ewen to sit up and pay attention to the grownup talk, which drew stares from the scribe. The Keoh was venting about the killers who had snuck through the gates with their tiny knives, and the need for more guards, more people watching. His hate was palpable but puzzling to Donal.

 "They must have known they would be killed," Donal said. "There were only a dozen, and thousands of us."

 "True believers," said the Keoh. "Against soft outsiders and members of the priestess caste. If we had an army of those..." he drifted off.

 "Believers, but in what?" On this, both Donal and Ewen were clueless.

 "Henh. Many beliefs out there," said the Keoh.

 "But Emic is the truth," said Donal hesitantly.

 "You think so because you've never spent time outside," said the Keoh. "People clutch their ideas tight as you. In the saltlands around us, some people follow the old gods. Farther south, it gets even stranger."

 "You have been there?"

 "Yes," said the Keoh, wiping his mouth. "I was born there, where the ancients built a river between the oceans. You have no idea about the world outside, Donal, or what you have to protect here."

 Ewen hissed a question in Donal's ear. "If I can ask," said Donal. "How is it that you... well ... are so healthy and have traveled so far?"

 "Pure chance," said the Keoh. "Do you see this scar?" He pointed to his neck. "That was a tumor. Had it cut out. I was lucky. Never came back. You know how you can't predict the number when you roll dice? It's like that, Donal. People are born with different strengths. Some, like you, are born to be Hunters. The unlucky are born unable to fight off the tumors, and they die. Just by chance, I was born able to remember better than others. And you know what they say, my friend, in the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king."

 "But the tumors -- the forgetting â&#8364;&#8220; aren't those caused by the tiny monsters left by the World builders, the little dark men put inside our father's-father's-father's bodies." The Keoh's monk laughed. The Keoh, without a word, picked up a stool and hurled it at him.

 "There are no monsters. No little dark men," said the Keoh, still glaring at his monk. "As much as Emic tries to scare you. It is only nature and chance. Trust me, Donal. No horror could be worse than now and real."

 Donal tried to keep what the Keoh was saying in his mind, but he couldn't. It slipped away like water evaporating after a thunderstorm, turning into wisps of mist, visible briefly, twisting in eddying air currents, then gone, back to the endless blue sky. He realized the Keoh was looking intently at him, gauging his target like a cat readying for a jump.

 "I have a mission for you," said the Keoh, in a calm, measured tone.

 "A mission?"

 "Those men who attacked the Castle. We found they came from Kisk in the far saltlands on the shore of the Ocean. Their leader calls himself the Colonel, and the people believe that he shows them the true ruins of the World builders, and that our Castle, that everything we call the World, is false."

 Donal was stunned. Kisk? Donal had known people who had traveled to Kisk as outsiders; a week's journey to the east, just another ruin in a ruined landscape. "But... why would they say that? Look at the age of the World. The materials. The... construction."

 The Keoh held up his hand. "I know, I know. As I said, these are matters of final belief."

 Donal pondered that briefly, shook off his questions, and focused on the task. "I have never been that far, but I thought there were long fingers of Ocean between us and Kisk."

 "We have swift boats, ready to take you within a half day's walk. Then, of course, you are on your own."

 "And what am I to do when I meet the Colonel?"

 "Donal," smiled the Keoh. "I fully expect you to eat his brain."

 #

 Ewen thought it would be a good idea to talk things over with Wally before leaving the next morning, and Donal agreed, so after the Fox Man hooded him and guided him through tunnels and brush (doubling back to disorient him, Donal noted) he was released at the edge of the vegetable patch behind his squat.

 The Fox man handed back his machete, shook his enormous, furred head, and for the first time Donal could recall, sounded almost human. "Look at this fucking shit we're in, man." He seemed to be about to shake Donal's hand or hug him. But he just muttered, "Good luck" and faded off into the twilight.

 "You have any idea where they had us?" He asked Ewen, who just shrugged. "Never mind. Let's go see Wally," and they trudged off through the pumpkins. This late in the season, they were the size of pigs, giant orange mounds dotting the garden, with now-withered creepers shooting off in manic writhing arcs.

 Wally lived in the Dome on the far side of the lagoon with the other monks of Etek. In the time of the World builders, it must have been an amazing sight. Even collapsed, enough of the metal framework remained that generations of workers had been able to prop and patch it over, producing an amalgam of wood and metal, silver and sod, with the random chimneys of cook fires poking from the curving thatched surface.

 An apprentice dropped his broom and ran off to get the monk while Donal waited at the doorway. The space under the Dome was the largest indoor area in the World, and it was a buzzing, blooming confusion of activity, smells of people and baking, guides shouting to groups of outsiders, the whine of spindles and the rhythmic chop of hammers and axes, an oddly familiar whiff of charcoal and the clang of hammer on anvil, monks leading groups of children in sing-song chants for remembering that Donal had not the vaguest clue about the referents of: "Come over some day, maybe play poker..."

 "It's been a long time," said Wally. Whenever Donal saw Wally, it was as if the months -- or years â&#8364;&#8220;- vanished, and they smiled and hugged. Wally was short, with close-cropped hair and the pale skin of someone who spent their life indoors. He wore pants that ended above the knee and the red cape of his order.

 "Sorry I haven't come by," said Donal. "You'd think with all the warm weather the hunting would be better. But it means more wolves."

 "And not all with four paws." Wally frowned. "Ugly business at the Castle a few weeks ago. And how is Ewen?" Wally crouched down to Ewen's eye level.

 As usual, Ewen was shy in the strange environment. Donal listened to his whisper. "He's fine, thanks. He says he likes your cape."

 "Well," said Wally, snapping it around himself. "Maybe someday soon we'll have this weaving process working in a way that scales. Come on over to my room, let's have a drink."

 For someone raised on a reed mat against the back wall of a crowded squat, the monk's chambers looked like a castle to Donal. He wondered why the Keoh didn't live in a place like this instead of a hole in the ground.

 "You'd think he'd want windows. No, he likes the security," said Wally, guiding them to rough hide cushions.

 "Did I ask that out loud?" said Donal.

 "Yeah, Donal, you did," said Wally. "I'm used to it. You've done it since you were five." He sliced the wax seal off a fired clay pitcher with the sharpened edge of his ring, and passed a drink that smelled sour and powerful and tasted like jellied fire.

 Donal drank, shrugged. He looked around the room, noticing how many books Wally had, and how they all seemed to be in much better shape than the ones in the Keoh's hole. Ewen was staring at a figure of a monk, unmoving, bent over a table in the corner.

 "Don't worry," Donal said to Ewen. "It's not real."

 Wally followed his gaze and laughed. "Oh, right. That's just Woodrow. I like to imagine that he keeps working even when I sleep." Above the stuffed figure of the monk with its carved antique head, a panel showed the letters of the alphabet, painstakingly lettered on a wooden plaque. He remembered Wally trying to teach him: arrow head, breasts, moon...

 They both drank.

 "Something's bothering you, Donal. You didn't just come to see me."

 "The Keoh called for me. He asked me to kill someone."

 "I see." Wally swirled the pitcher, looked in, started to speak, thought better of it. "Anyone we...know?"

 "The Colonel of Kisk."

 Wally relaxed. "You had me worried for a minute there, Donal. Your reputation is pretty dark. Fox Man has been running around today telling everybody about some woman you hacked to pieces."

 "She tried to take my space." He looked at Ewen, tried to remember. "Had to protect my brother. Had to kill her." Ewen tugged at his sleeve, trying to tell him something, but Donal shushed him.

 "The cold arithmetic of survival," said Wally. He took a drink from the pitcher, passed it back to Donal. "What can I do to help?"

 "You know what they say about Kisk," said Donal. "Everyone who goes there talks about the legend. They say it holds a pathway to the stars."

 "That's the legend."

 "But is it true?"

 "Hm," said Wally. "From tiny acorns, great oaks may grow. Where there's a legend, there's probably a seed of truth. But you know how it is around a campfire. The bears get bigger, a dozen enemy braves become an army."

 "Do they believe it? Is that why they hate the World?"

 "If I could read half these books, maybe I could tell you," said Wally.

 "So you don't believe the legend?"

 "There are some things you believe in, like Emic, and some things that you don't."

 Ewen whispered to him. "That's the other thing. The Keoh said Emic is just scaring us. He said the only things that existed were...uh... nature and chance."

 "There was nothing natural about the great dying, or the plagues," Wally said gently. "Or the way things fell apart. We may not be able to remember, but we have put enough of that together."

 "Plagues?"

 "Never mind. All you need to remember is that the little dark men inside us are real, and that they were put there."

 Donal considered this. "Are you are afraid of Emic?"

 "No, not afraid," Wally answered patiently. "You've never seen her up close. There's something about her. The way she looks at you. When she speaks, you just...believe." He fingered the amulet on his neck with the three interlocking circles of Emic.

 "And yet, for all that power, the World has no pathway to the stars. And Kisk does."

 "Kisk? It's a..." Wally struggled for words, "I know you've never left the World. It's...a journey. That you take. To see something." He thought for a minute. "Donal, I've always tried to help you. Let me see if we might have a talk with one of the acolytes at the Castle."

 #

 "You have to remember, Kisk is a watery kingdom," said Wally. They were in a stone room at the back of the Castle, clearly a dining area from the rough hewn table that occupied most of the space. Wally had led them there, the last part of the way through a tunnel like the Keoh's, this one running under the main street, beneath the feet of outsiders already queuing up for evening chant at the Castle's lagoon.

 They had been met by one of the pale, serious-eyed young acolytes who served the priestess. Like the rest, she wore a dark robe and a long black veil that covered the sides of her head and trailed down her back. Wally and the woman had talked quietly for a while before she led them to the room to wait.

 "I've spent a lot of time diving in the lagoon," said Donal. "I know my way around a boat."

 "Ah, this is no lagoon, Donal." Said Wally. "This is the eastern Ocean. The water is full of salt, and deep. Deeper than you can imagine."

 "And getting deeper every year," said the woman who appeared at the door, wearing the high priestess's outfit of whispering black fabric, with a high collar that ran nearly up to her chin. She was pale and impossibly thin. Wally immediately fell to his knees and put his forehead on the floor. Ewen tugged at Donal's elbow to do the same, but he couldn't look away. Her gaze caught him, at once compassionate and remote; her eyes twinkled with enormous intelligence, and her faint smile suggested both calm cheer and depthless sadness.

 "Mother Emic," said Wally. "We are graced by your attention."

 "My daughter tells me an interesting story, about the Keoh and the land of Kisk," she said. She looked at Donal closely. Her eyes flickered to his side.

 "My brother Ewen, and I am Donal." He saw Wally and the priestess exchange a look.

 "I see," she said. "You are the one he is sending?"

 Ewen had managed to drag Donal to his knees. "I am. I've come looking for your help. About the legend. The pathway."

 "As Wally might have told you.."

 "Mother Emic, I said nothing..." She silenced him with a wave.

 "As Wally would have told you, were it not heresy to question the ways of the builders. The â&#8364;&#732;pathway' is probably real, but not in the way you think. Almost certainly not in the way the Colonel's fanatics think. And soon, the water will be so deep that no one will be able to reach or remember it, and then, in just a matter of time, the Ocean will solve our problem for us." She frowned. "I dislike the Keoh's constant...attentions...to these things which the future can erase without our help."

 "So the pathway...is real?"

 She regarded him evenly. "You have a very good memory."

 "My brother helps me," Donal admitted.

 "And you worry about truth. Odd for an assassin."

 "I only do what my father did, to protect the World."

 "A Hunter with a taste for the truth may find more than you can imagine."

 "It's too late for me to back up," said Donal.

 "Fair enough. If you are going down this road armed with nothing but your own vision, at least let's make it clear." She waved, and the woman who had brought them to the room silently whisked in.

 To Donal, she said, "This is one of the secrets of Emic, reserved for only a handful among the outsiders who seek our wisdom. But you seem someone able to keep things to himself." She looked at Wally and nodded in the direction of the door, and Donal's friend sidled immediately out, with what seemed an apologetic, or perhaps wistful, look.

 "You are ready for the next step?" Donal nodded, and the priestess turned to her assistant.

 "Take him on the Dark Ride."

 #

 "I am Mina," she said. "Follow me." The acolyte unhooked a torch and led Donal down a flight of stairs. He smelled water. Not the cool dampness of the tunnels under the World, this held the tang of brine and a warm humidity, like the steaming woods following an afternoon rain. Down a hallway, through a narrow door, and he was in a room almost completely occupied by a pool in the floor. The reek of salt was overpowering.

 The acolyte placed the torch in a holder, then bent down and tested the water with her hand.

 "Just right," she said.

 "What is that?" Donal asked.

 "This is where we connect with the Goddess," Mina said. "The pool is filled with salts from the eastern ocean. It makes the water thick enough to float in. We heat it with stones to be warm as skin." She took a crockery pot from an alcove, poured a careful measure into a white plastic cup. "La primer alma," she said. "Drink this and lie down on that mat."

 "What about Ewen."

 "I think it would be best if he waits in the corridor," Mina said, as she slipped off his belt with the leather bag, and hung it outside the door, above his machete. She opened a wax-sealed jar, rubbed some liquid on her hands, and began to massage his shoulders. "Turn over," she said.

 Whatever she had given him was relaxing all his muscles, and her fingers slid and prodded as she worked down from his back to his ankles. She told him to turn over again, and he saw that she was now naked as well, and she climbed on top of him, massaging his stiffening member, his nipples, and then her mouth was on his and he slid into her. He came so thoroughly his entire body shook, and she rode him and squeezed, in synchrony, draining him utterly.

 Lazily, he realized he could see the sides of her head, and he understood why the Emic's costume had seams there. And why these acolytes wore the head covering. Not horns, he realized. Ears.

 #

 There was a black gap, and when he came to awareness, he had a sense of flying. He could feel the water, knew he was floating in the tank, but Mina had doused the torch; even with his eyes open, he saw nothing. The air and water were the same temperature, impossible to say where one ended and the other began. His mind was like an ox freed from a yoke, galloping effortlessly away, and his thoughts were racing, exploding, following one another in a way they never had before. Donal was aware, for the first time in his life, of being aware. He watched himself, watching his mind dreaming.

 He could feel the blood pulsing, out to the ends of his fingers and toes, every tiny vessel, throbbing with life and energy.

 And slowly, the riot of thoughts began to still, the flood of images slowed. Relaxed. Unwound.

 Until one image remained.

 The face of Ewen. As a baby.

 Floating.

 Like he was, still and empty, in a warm sac of fluid. Warm and happy and safe, in the world before the World.

 And then Ewen's voice, speaking inside his head: "What if I had never been born?"

 A brief flash of the old womens' knives, cutting up his mother for the feast. And then there was nothing. Floating emptiness, an endless black screen of death.

 "What would you remember then?"

 And suddenly, he was overcome with blind panic, thrashing wildly, trying to find the bottom with his feet, getting mouthfuls of rich, salty water.

 Mina waded in and held him as he gasped, and sobbed, and his breathing eventually returned to normal.

 #

 The Keoh had been right about the boat, the ride was indeed fast. What would have been a four-day slog through the swampland to the southeast took just one afternoon, with help from a sail rigged up to catch the gust front running ahead of the day's storm.

 Donal sat in the stern, staying out of the way as the crew struggled to keep the boat right in the water, twisting the stitched-together sail from side to side. He kept Ewen close, and fingered the amulet that the priestess had given him. "One more thing," she had said as he left, tossing the bit of worked metal on a leather thong. He ran his finger around the three interlocked circles and tried to forget his salty drowning nightmare.

 The sailors put in at the edge of a ruined road of the ancients. Though they pretended to be tough, the Keoh's boatmen were clearly unnerved to be so far from home and they hurried their cargo off, tossed a plastic jug of water, and sailed away without looking back, tacking into the gathering wind.

 "Well, Ewen, we better find someplace to get out of the rain."

 The mosquitoes were unbelievable here, and soon the black flies came to join them. They never seemed to bother Ewen; Donal envied that. The entrance to the kingdom of Kisk was a short hike to the north, and Donal set out on a path that branched out from the road of the ancients, which curved away to the west, into the estuary they had just crossed.

 A rattlesnake slithered onto out of the brush and Donal instantly, reflexively, caught it behind the head with his machete.

 "Dinner," he said.

 "Not hungry," Ewen shook his head. "I'm going for a walk."

 Donal collected branches and built an ugly but secure lean-to that would protect them from the worst of the rain, then took some time skinning and cleaning the snake, whose head glared at him balefully until he carefully poked it into the underbrush with a stick.

 There was no way to start a fire, so he hacked off chunks and spent a long time, chewing, watching clouds gathering to the west.

 "Ewen," he called. There was no response.

 "Ewen?" He yelled now, feeling raw snake rising in his gorge. He picked up the machete and ran in the direction Ewen had gone.

 "Ewen!"

 "Here," Ewen stood in a clearing where their path crossed a larger one leading east. This had obviously been a main road in the past, the edges still vaguely delineated by fractured stumps of the ancient's metal trees.

 "I wanted to see what it felt like to be alone," Ewen looked up at him.

 "What do you mean?" He was panting, sweating, and the mosquitoes were an audible buzz.

 "Someday, you will leave and not come back." Ewen looked off west down the path. "And I wondered what that would feel like."

 The first few drops of rain hit Donal, and he picked up his brother, cradling him in his arms for the first time in years, and carried him back to the lean-to. He did not sleep well.

 #

 The entrance to Kisk was surprisingly like the Castle, except the wait was ten times as long. Outsiders shuffled endlessly around the marshy ground at the end of the road, waiting their turn on the parade of ships that took outsiders to see the sunken wonders. Jugglers and tumblers entertained; vendors shouted from stalls full of fried critters on sticks and strange but delicious-smelling baked goods from the lands up north.

 As they lined up for the boats, guards searched them, just as they did at the Castle, taking anything suspicious. Ewen walked right through. But when they came to Donal, they looked at his blade, then his necklace, and called over their boss, who eventually called over his boss. The men muttered to each other for a while, then waved him on. His fellow passengers eyed the machete with a mixture of envy and fear.

 Once underway, the tedious ride quickly made Donal long for the pleasure of waiting in line. The boats were crowded, the outsiders smelled like poorly wiped asses and rotten fish, and the guides barked descriptions of the largely invisible wonders in an incomprehensible accent. All Donal saw was a few bits of rusted metal poking out of the water, and yet the crowd gasped and gaped and pointed like children.

 The Colonel's island was artificial; an enormous white and rust-brown structure which, when it had been built, would probably have towered hundreds of feet over their heads -- and, Donal supposed, continued perhaps a hundred feet beneath. Even in ruin, it was awe inspiring; a scabrous, flaking hulk, collapsed on itself, rusted beams surrounding a hollow interior where waves slapped and boomed. Their boat's closest approach was a hundred yards off, and while the visitors were absorbed with the sight, Donal threw Ewen a look and they quietly went over the side and swam for it, staying underwater until they were safe among the piers of the structure.

 #

 "I was wondering when you would show up." The Colonel's face showed no sign of panic.

 The old man sat in a chair that likely started its life as a boat, wood planks whose pores were sealed with some greasy black material, now pried apart and reassembled as a low seat with wide arms. The Colonel of Kisk had a long face, dark skin, and ears that stuck out past his thin frizz of graying hair. He could have been a thousand years old, or it might just have been the tired look Donal recognized from the faces of those who have seen quite enough of the world and are no longer frightened by what's next. He might have been forty. He wore a woven loincloth and a half-dozen rows of necklaces, some with teeth, some shells, some, Donal saw, threaded with the shiny discs of the ancients, and one, identical to his, with the symbol of Emic.

 His perch was a rusted balcony which jutted from the side of the structure, a miraculously horizontal surface amid the crumbled and folded building, dotted with rust holes that offered windows to the sea beneath. Out to the horizon there was just a world of water, lapping peacefully. The slap of waves and the cries of terns were the only sound for a long moment.

 "Welcome to my island, built by the shining people of Kisk, long ago," said the Colonel, "Like all islands, like our increasingly narrow toeholds of land, suspended above Mother Ocean. I assume you bring greetings from the Castle?"

 Donal said nothing. The sun beat down.

 "I was born on an island, and I guess I'll die on one. You think you're here to kill me," said the old man, nodding at Donal's machete.

 "I am here on a mission from the Keoh of the World."

 "The World. Indeed." He smiled. "You know, every people, in every language, call their land â&#8364;&#732;The World' until they meet others." He shook his head, smiled. "You people are the only ones stubborn enough to keep calling it that. You are legend."

 "Which is why you send your followers to attack our Castle? Kill innocent visitors? Women, children."

 "I don't think even you really believe that."

 "I believe you are a danger to the World."

 "I am what I am because of who we all are," said the Colonel. "And you are no different. What's your name, son."

 "Donal. And this is Ewen."

 The Colonel paused and thought for a minute. "Donal. And Ewen. Look at me. I'm an old man with a big belly who enjoys sitting in the sunshine. The tumors took my wife and all my children before me, so whatever it is I have, whatever blessing or curse has spared me from the forgetting, well, it's going to die with me. So if you really are intent on killing me, at least let me show you why we believe what we do."

 And that was how Donal found himself in the back of tiny boat, being rowed a half mile north over featureless ocean by this old man.

 #

 "I believed, myself," said the Colonel. "When I was growing up, a lot of people wanted to live out here. They took on faith that beneath us was a secret city, and within it, a gateway to the world beyond."

 Donal was having trouble concentrating. This water was not like the placid lagoon, or even the ride across the estuary on the Keoh's boat. Here, he was constantly tossed, in a way that kept him from regaining his balance.

 "My father said that his grandfather's father -- who claimed to have been Colonel here, who survived the great dying in the time of the builders -- had passed the knowledge of where this doorway was. My father had never tried to visit it, and wouldn't reveal the location until he was on his deathbed."

 A duck bobbed ahead of them, and Donal expected it to take off at their approach, but it remained strangely motionless, and he realized it was a lifeless replica. The old man hooked it, and they sat, water lapping the sides of the boat, circling slowly. The Colonel lifted the duck with his gaff to reveal a yellow and white rope, descending.

 "This line goes all the way down to the bottom, anchored to what they called the gateway between worlds. It's a shame my father never looked for himself. I might have spent my life rather differently."

 The Colonel slid a rock from under the seat. "Hug this to your chest, and keep your arms around the line until you reach the bottom. Take a deep breath. If you are lucky, you may have a few moments to look around before you need to come back up. Be careful if you choose to go... inside. You could die down there."

 Donal looked at the rock, at the water.

 "You'll need to let go of your machete," the Colonel said gently. "And you'll want to leave your belt."

 "No," Donal recoiled. The darkness of the floating pool came flooding back in; he felt a desperate urge to escape, to leap from the boat and flee.

 "You think this could just be the way I dispatch assassins from the World?"

 "No," Donal stared at the horizon. Distant clouds were building up into tall blue and gray anvils somewhere back over the land. The boat rocked in the sun.

 "We do these things not because they are easy, Donal, but because they are hard."

 Slowly, Donal put down his machete. Carefully, he undid his leather belt and set the bag down on the seat.

 "You'll keep an eye on Ewen," he said.

 "I will guard him like my own brother."

 Donal grasped the rock and heaved over the side.

 #

 The first few feet was like the lagoon, warm and clear, but as he continued sinking, the light faded and rippled, the pressure in his ears increased.

 Then he passed through an invisible layer and the water was suddenly colder. He began to make out shapes below -- a building, lying on its side, the line snaking into its open end. The light was dim here, and the water jittered with muddy particles, but through it, Donal could see that the structure had not fallen over; it had been built sideways, and inside was an enormous decaying object. He slowed himself on the line to hover, looking out over it, lit by the slanting rays of afternoon sun. It was clearly a device built by the ancients, hundreds of feet long. What must have originally been smooth metal was now a forest of kelp, sea anemone, mussels; rusted and sagging sections of the machine spilled intricate pieces, identities erased by corrosion, to the seafloor below. He could make out, in giant flaking letters on the side, a familiar pattern: cup-snakeâ&#8364;&#8220;arrow head. And as he saw that, he remembered the white cylinder in the corner of the Keoh's spider hole. That had been an image, a copy. And he was looking, he knew with certainty, at the original.

 This was it. The pathway of the legend. A machine that took men between worlds, but those days were long gone.

 He understood now that he had not eluded the Colonel's guards. He had been allowed to come. To be shown.

 This, he realized, was the real World, had always been. A world that had existed before them, a world of both beautiful castles and amazing machines, and yet, a world whose builders had, through carelessness or malice, unleashed diseases that robbed people of their minds, sent growths through their bodies. A world of fabulous power, and yet unable to prevent the sea from rising to cover its buildings, the vines and grasses from reclaiming its roads.

 And if such a civilization with time and power to spare had been doomed, what chance did Donal's grim, small, overgrown World have?

 The Priestess of Emic had been right; the pathway was real. But not in any way he could ever have imagined. He knew that it was not, could never have been the Colonel's people who sacrificed their lives to terrorize the Castle. They were not true believers; they were believers in the truth. The threat to the World lay much closer to home. If he had not been underwater, he might have laughed, screamed, pulled out his hair.

 He dropped the rock and headed for the light above. Climbed into the boat and sat, dripping, looking at the old man, as if for the first time.

 "You saw?"

 "I saw."

 He sat for a moment, salt drying on his skin, before picking up the machete and tossing it into the ocean. It twinkled, spinning, in the light, made a distant splash. He moved to pick up his belt and stopped, frozen, his hand hovering.

 "What's that," asked the Colonel, pointing at the leather bag.

 "My brother, Ewen," he said, "He died with my mother, in childbirth."

 "I think you've come to the right place," the old man said.

 Donal considered the tanned deerhide bag, closed with a simple flap and latched with the spine bone of a raccoon. He nodded. Undid the bag, released the pitifully tiny bones and powder into the water. For a moment, he could see his brother's skull, tumbling, end-over-end, off into the darkness.

 "It is sadness we are born for," said the old man.

 Donal looked at the sky. The wind was picking up, and the rains would be coming soon.

 "We'd better get back," he said to the Colonel. He looked at the dust on his hands. He was just like Ewen, he thought, and he would die too. Alone.

 "Are you still going to kill me?" asked the old man.

 "We'll see. Row."

 

 Thanks to the Gibraltar Point crew (Laurie, Sara, Janice, Becky, Lis, Michael, Dave, and Peter) who read this in zero draft and saved me from the most egregious errors. Steve Samenski caught a huge one. Those that remain are solely my responsibility. Thanks to bladesmith Chris Doherty for research and advice, almost none of which ended up the finished product. The story owes a debt to Alan Weisman's amazing The World Without Us for inspiration, and, of course, to David Byrne for the title.

 

 Author's note:

 Actually, this one is not so much a story as an occasional fiction, written for a very specific audience, halfway between homage and pastiche and larded with sly winks and intertextual references. My plan after using it for its intended purpose was to make only the most cursory attempt at selling it (as one is obligated to, if one follows Heinlen's Five Rules) and then cc-license it, which is the only appropriate thing to do with something written as a wedding present for Cory Doctorow and Alice Taylor.

 You can read it here or download as rich text here. http://torvex.com/jmcdaid/files/nothingbutflowersjmcdaid.rtf

 What? You haven't read Cory Doctorow's work? Don't waste another minute here. Go download some of his amazing stories._

 (Nothing But) Flowers by John G. McDaid is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-Share Alike 3.0 United States License.

 As recalled by Michael Hart in January 2009 in an email interview: "On July 4, 1971, while still a freshman at the University of Illinois (UI), I decided to spend the night at the Xerox Sigma V mainframe at the UI Materials Research Lab, rather than walk miles home in the summer heat, only to come back hours later to start another day of school. I stopped on the way to do a little grocery shopping to get through the night, and day, and along with the groceries they put in the faux parchment copy of The U.S. Declaration of Independence that became quite literally the cornerstone of Project Gutenberg. That night, as it turned out, I received my first computer account - I had been hitchhiking on my brother's best friend's name, who ran the computer on the night shift. When I got a first look at the huge amount of computer money I was given, I decided I had to do something extremely worthwhile to do justice to what I had been given. This was such a serious, and intense thought process for a college freshman, my first thought was that I had better eat something to get up enough energy to think of something worthwhile enough to repay the cost of all that computer time. As I emptied out groceries, the faux parchment Declaration of Independence fell out, and the light literally went on over my head like in the cartoons and comics... I knew what the future of computing, and the internet, was going to be... 'The Information Age.' The rest, as they say, is history."

 Michael keyed in The United States Declaration of Independence to the mainframe he was using, in upper case, because there was no lower case yet. The file was 5 K. To send a 5 K file to the 100 users of the pre- internet of the time would have crashed the network, so Michael mentioned where the etext was stored - though without a hypertext link, because the web was still 20 years ahead. It was downloaded by six users. Project Gutenberg was born.

 Michael decided to use the huge amount of computer time he had been given to search the literary works that were stored in libraries, and to digitize these works. A book would become a continuous text file instead of a set of pages. Project Gutenberg's mission would be the following: to put at everyone's disposal, in electronic versions, as many literary works as possible for free.

 After keying in The United States Declaration of Independence (signed on July 4, 1776) in 1971, Michael typed in a longer text, The United States Bill of Rights, in 1972, i.e. the first ten amendments added in 1789 to the Constitution (dated 1787) and defining the individual rights of the citizens and the distinct powers of the federal government and the States. A volunteer typed in The United States Constitution in 1973.

 From one year to the next, disk space was getting larger, by the standards of the time - there was no hard disk yet -, making it possible to store larger files.

 Volunteers began typing in The Bible, with one individual book at a time, and a file for each book.

 Michael typed in the collected works of Shakespeare, with volunteers, one play at a time, and a file for each play. This edition of Shakespeare was never released, unfortunately, due to changes in copyright law. Shakespeare's works belong to public domain, but comments and notes may be copyrighted, depending on the publication date. Other editions of Shakespeare from public domain were released a few years later.


