 AS SOON AS I GOT OUT OF THERE, I HAD TO TELL AS MANY PEOPLE AS I COULD WHAT KIND OF EXPERIENCE I'D HAD, PERHAPS AS A MEANS OF CONVINCING MYSELF THAT I'D NEVER HAVE TO GO BACK THERE AGAIN. MAYBE IN A FEW YEARS WHEN SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE ARE OUT TOO, I'LL RUN INTO ONE OF THEM IN THE STREET, AND EXCHANGE PLEASANTRIES. THAT MIGHT BE NICE. BUT THAT'LL BE IT.

 Barberey, or Fromage de Troyes Champagne, France

 Soft, creamy and smooth, resembling Camembert, five to six inches in diameter and 1-1/4 inches thick. Named from its home town, Barberey, near Troyes, whose name it also bears. Fresh, warm milk is coagulated by rennet in four hours. Uncut curd then goes into a wooden mold with a perforated bottom, to drain three hours, before being finished off in an earthenware mold. The cheeses are salted, dried and ripened three weeks

 in a cave. The season is from November to May and when made in summer they are often sold fresh.

 NOW I'M LOST IN THE TV. THEY HAD TV IN THERE, BUT IT'S NOTHING LIKE THE TV OF FREEDOM. I LOVE THE ADVERTS, AND THE IDEA THAT I COULD GO OUT AND PURCHASE SOME OF THESE AWESOME PRODUCTS. NOT THAT I HAVE ANY MONEY TO BUY THEM WITH, BUT I WILL HAVE ONE DAY, WHEN I GET BACK ON MY FEET. I'LL HAVE A JOB AND A SUIT AND CAREER PROSPECTS AND LIFE INSURANCE AND GYM MEMBERSHIP AND SKY.

 I'M SHARING A HOUSE RIGHT NOW WITH SIX OTHER PEOPLE. SAMANTHA, BARRY, CRAIG, DUNDER, FOXY, AND GOGO. GOGO'S GIRLFRIEND, PET, STAYS OVER MOST NIGHTS. THEY ALL SEEM LIKE GOOD PEOPLE. APART FROM BARRY, HE'S AN ARSEHOLE, BUT WHAT CAN YOU DO? I AIN'T GONNA KILL HIM.

 Barboux France

 Soft.

 Baronet U.S.A.

 A natural product, mild and mellow.

 Barron France

 Soft.

 Just going out.

 Alright.

 You want anything?

 You buying?

 I'm buying if you're paying.

 I'm not paying.

 Seriously. I'm going the shops. You want anything from the shops?

 Socks.

 What?

 Socks. I need ... I need a couple of pairs ...

 S'that a joke?

 No. Look at these holes.

 I'm going the supermarket.

 They sell socks in the supermarket.

 Yeah, but it's not a normal ... it's not a normal request ...

 I ain't gonna lie and say I want a pint of milk just to fit in with your perception of normality, you maniac. I WANT A PAIR OF SOCKS.

 No need for a barney. Alright? Alright?

 Yeah.

 ALRIGHT?

 Now you're the one getting worked up.

 So, what size are you?

 What size what?

 Socks. What size socks?

 Do socks come in sizes?

 Stands to reason. Shoes come in sizes. People have different size feet, so they must have different size socks. You understand?

 I'm size nine shoes. But sometimes I wear size eight. My shoes are size nine and my trainers are size eight. When I went in the shop to buy my trainers, this guy asked me what size I took, so I told him size nine, so he got me size nine, but size nine were a bit too big, so I got size eight. So, maybe I'm a size eight all along and my shoes are just too big for me.

 I'll see what they got. You can pay me later. You'd better pay me.

 I'll have to see what money I got. How much do socks cost?

 Bassillac see Bleu.

 Bath England

 Gently made, lightly salted, drained on a straw mat in the historic resort town of Bath. Ripened in two weeks and eaten only when covered with a refined fuzzy mold that's also eminently edible. It is the most delicate of English-speaking cheeses.

 Battelmatt Switzerland, St. Gothard Alps, northern Italy, and western Austria

 An Emmentaler made small where milk is not plentiful. The "wheel" is only sixteen inches in diameter and four inches high, weighing forty to eighty pounds. The cooking of the curd is done at a little lower temperature than Emmentaler, it ripens more rapidly--in four months --and is somewhat softer, but has the same holes and creamy though sharp, full nutty flavor.

 Oh yeah, and Barry. Barry. BARRY!

 Bauden (see also Koppen) Germany, Austria, Bohemia and Silesia

 Semisoft, sour milk, hand type, made in herders' mountain huts in about the same way as Harzkäse, though it is bigger. In two forms, one cup shape (called Koppen), the other a cylinder. Strong and aromatic, whether made with or without caraway.

 Bavarian Beer cheese see Bayrischer Bierkäse.

 What? I was halfway down the stairs. What, Razor? What? WHAT?

 Can you get some cheese?

 Bavarian Cream German

 Very soft; smooth and creamy. Made in the Bavarian mountains. Especially good with sweet wines and sweet sauces.

 Bavarois à la Vanille see Fromage Bavarois.

 FEBRUARY WAS THE WORST MONTH FOR ME. EVERY SINGLE DAY I WAS LIKE A PUPPET BEING OPERATED BY MY OWN HAND. IT FELT LIKE SOMEONE ELSE WAS TAKING OVER MY LIFE. SOMEONE OR SOMETHING HIDEOUS WAS CONTROLLING MY EVERY MOVE. I SUPPOSE IT'S ONLY NATURAL WHEN YOU'VE BEEN THROUGH SOMETHING TRAUMATIC. I'VE TALKED TO OTHER PEOPLE ABOUT IT, AND THEY FEEL THE SAME WAY THAT I DO. THE FIRST MONTH IS THE WORST. I FEEL COMFORTED BY THAT, COMFORTED BY THE Bayonne see Fromage de Bayonne.

 Bayrischer Bierkäse Bavaria

 Bavarian beer cheese from the Tyrol is made not only to eat with beer, but to dunk in it.

 Beads of cheese Tibet

 Beads of hard cheese, two inches in diameter, are strung like a necklace of cowrie shells or a rosary, fifty to a hundred on a string. Also see Money Made of Cheese.

 Beagues see Tome de Savoie. SOMEHOW IT BROUGHT ME BACK TO REALITY, BACK TO MY OLD LIFE, ONLY NOW I WAS A VISITOR, LIKE AN EX-PUPIL WANDERING AROUD THEIR OLD SCHOOL GROUNDS. YOU CAN'T JUST SIT BEHIND A DESK WITH ALL THE OTHER KIDS ANYMORE, BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT A CHILD ANYMORE, YOU'RE A GROWN-UP, YOU'RE A REAL PERSON Bean Cake, Tao-foo, or Tofu China, Japan, the Orient

 Soy bean cheese imported from Shanghai and other oriental ports, and also imitated in every Chinatown around the world. Made from the milk of beans and curdled with its own vegetable rennet.

 Beaujolais see Chevretons.

 Beaumont, or Tome de Beaumont Savoy, France

 A more or less successful imitation of Trappist Tamie, a trade-secret triumph of Savoy. At its best from October to June.

 OF COURSE, SAMANTHA WAS THE BIGGEST HELP, AND SHE KNOWS THAT. SHE PREFERS IT WHEN PEOPLE CALL HER SAM, BUT I LIKE THE SOUND OF HER FULL NAME. SAM-AN-THA. I PRONOUNCE EACH SYLLABLE DELIBERATELY. I CAN TASTE HER NAME.

 I KNOW THIS IS REAL LOVE BECAUSE I DON'T WANT TO TOUCH HER, I JUST WANT TO BE WITH HER. I WANT HER TO WANT ME TOO, BUT FOR THE RIGHT REASONS. I DON'T WANT HER TO THINK I'M DANGEROUS, BRCAUSE I DON'T WANT TO BE DANGEROUS ANYMORE. MAYBE I SHOULD DITCH THE NICKNAME.

 Beaupré de Roybon Dauphiné, France

 A winter specialty made from November to April.

 Beckenried Switzerland

 A good mountain cheese from goat milk.

 Beer cheese U.S.A.

 While our beer cheese came from Germany and the word is merely a translation of Bierkäse, we use it chiefly for a type of strong Limburger made mostly in Milwaukee. This fine, aromatic cheese is considered by many as the very best to eat while drinking beer. But in Germany Bierkäse is more apt to be dissolved in a glass or

 stein of beer, much as we mix malted powder in milk, and drunk with it, rather than eaten.

 THE CONTENTS OF MY LIVING ROOM (IT'S NOT REALLY "MY" LIVING ROOM):

 TV

 COUPLE OF OLD SOFAS -- ONE BROWN, ONE SICKLY ORANGE. THEY MATCH THE SHIT '70S WALLPAPER.

 BOOKSHELVES, STUFFED WITH EVERYTHING APART FROM BOOKS -- ASSORTED TOILETERIES, MAKE UP, A POT OF PAINT, A PHOTO IN A FRAME LYING FACE DOWN, SEVERAL ASHTRAYS, CANDLES, MATCHES, LIGHTERS, SELOTAPE, BLUE-TAC, AN OLD NEWSPAPER WITH BITS CUT OUT.

 EMPTY WASTE BIN. THERE'S RUBBISH ALL OVER THE FLOOR, INCLUDING A HALF-EATEN MICROWAVE HOT DOG THAT'S BEEN THERE FOR DAYS, AND A COFFEE CUP WITH MOULD IN.

 A COFFEE TABLE WITH FOOTPRINTS ON IT.

 AN OLD-SKOOL LANDLINE PHONE WITH A DIAL.

 A SALVADOR DALI PRINT (DON'T KNOW WHO PUT THAT THERE) NEXT TO A MASSIVE PICTURE OF ELVIS (BARRY'S A FAN).

 ASSORTED TISSUES, SWEET WRAPPERS, CRISP PACKETS, FAG ENDS, AND A SCATEBOARD.

 Beer-Regis Dorsetshire, England

 This sounds like another beer cheese, but it's only a mild Cheddar named after its hometown in Dorsetshire.

 ACTUALLY, THERE'S ONE BOOK ON THE SHELF. IT'S "THE COMPLETE BOOK OF CHEESE" BY ROBERT CARLTON BROWN. IT MUST BE ONE OF CRAIG'S.

 So, where's Barry?

 In the kitchen.

 I thought he was out.

 No, he came back.

 Did he bring my socks?

 My goodness, Razor, is that fellow your butler now?

 He wishes. The boy don't have the style. HEY BARRY! BARRY!

 You might want to go in there and find him, Razor.

 I might.

 It's just a suggestion.

 BARRY!

 Seriously. No shouting. I've got a headache.

 OK, OK, OK, OK.

 Beist-Cheese Scotland

 A curiosity of the old days. "The first milk after a calving, boiled or baked to a thick consistency, the result somewhat resembling new-made cheese, though this is clearly not a true cheese." (MacNeill)

 You are joking. You are joking, mate. Seriously, Barry. Get up, mate. It's not funny. I can tell that's not real blood. Come on, mate. Seriously. Barry. Barry. BARRY!!!!!!!

 Belarno Italy

 Hard; goat; creamy dessert cheese.

 Excuse me, chaps. What did I tell you about shouting?

 I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Craig. No, really, I'm ... oh my God.

 What is it?

 I don't mean to shout. Really, I don't mean to shout. Just get an ambulance. Get an ambulance! GET AN AMBULANCE!

 Belgian Cooked Belgium

 

 CRAIG:

 I was wearing my dungarees the day Barry was murdered. I used them to paint in. They belonged to my mum originally. She wore them while she was pregnant with me. They were her maternity dungarees.

 Sometimes I wear women's clothes to work. They can't sack me, it's discrimination. Anyway, I'm always out of sight of the general public, so I'm not bringing the company into disrepute. Wouldn't that be ghastly?

 I'm never offended when people think I'm gay. Nine times out of ten, they're just curious observers rather than aggressive idiots. Not all aggressive idiots are straight, by the by. Homosexuals hate me. They think I give them a bad name, though heaven knows why. Hey ho.

 I like wearing women's clothes because women's clothes are sexy, and I feel sexy when I wear them. I love the feel of the fabric when I get an erection on the bus in a pair of French knickers.

 I'm not going to make excuses, because there's nothing to be ashamed of. It's not abnormal, it's not perverted -- it's a healthy expression of male sexuality. If people want to be gay, that's fine too. Most people don't have any qualms about that sort of thing nowadays, or am I just hoodwinking myself?

 I don't mean to sound arrogant, but I've got a tremendous amount of faith in human nature. It's like this chap, Razor, who moved in a few weeks back. Other people had reservations because he's been in prison, but I told them in no uncertain terms, give the fellow a chance! The satisfying thing is, I was right, because the man is jolly pleasant. It irritated me immensely when the police took him in for questioning. Just because someone's got a criminal record it doesn't make them a criminal. Why didn't they take me instead? Was it because I was wearing maternity dungarees?

 Although the printing of these observations is not paid for out of the funds of the Royal Society, yet as the Council of that body are the visitors of the Royal Observatory, it may not be misplaced to introduce the subject here.

 Some years since, a member of the Royal Society accidentally learned that there was, at an old store-shop in Thames Street, a large quantity of the volumes of the Greenwich Observations on sale as waste paper. On making inquiry, he ascertained that there were two tons and a half to be disposed of, and that an equal quantity had already been sold, for the purpose of converting it into pasteboard. The vendor said he could get fourpence a pound for the whole, and that it made capital Bristol board. The fact was mentioned by a member of the Council of the Royal Society, and they thought it necessary to inquire into the circumstances.

 I've got a confession to make. It's awful. We've got this retro telephone that we use for the landline. I got it from a charity shop. I like retro memorabilia, not just to be fashionable and pretentious, but because I feel there are certain cultural items that are worth preserving. I like old bookshops. I bought a book the other day called "Decline of Science in England" by Charles Babbage, the man who invented the computer. It was first published in 1850. My edition was from the early twentieth century. Perhaps it's a collector's item, but I only paid two pounds for it. I have no idea what the book is about, but it's jolly funny!

 Anyway, what was I saying? Oh yes. My confession. Razor was shouting at me to "GET AN AMBULANCE!" so I marched straight into the living room and picked up the retro phone, and as I dialled the three nines, I couldn't help a part of me from acknowledging the chicness of the gadget in my hand.

 How awful is that? My friend was dead in the other room, and there was me, feeling all stylish with my retro phone. Really, seriously -- how awful?!

 Now, the Observations made at the Royal Observatory are printed with every regard to typographical luxury, with large margins, on thick paper, hotpressed, and with no sort of regard to economy. This magnificence is advocated by some who maintain, that the volumes ought to be worthy of a great nation; whilst others, seeing how little that nation spends on science, regret that the sums allotted to it should not be applied with the strictest economy. If the Astronomer Royal really has a right to these volumes, printed by the government at a large expense, it is, perhaps, the most extravagant mode which was ever yet invented of paying a public servant. When that right was given to him,--let us suppose somebody had suggested the impolicy of it, lest he should sell the costly volumes for waste paper,--who would have listened for one moment to such a supposition? He would have been told that it was impossible to suppose a person in that high and responsible situation, could be so indifferent to his own reputation.

 The police took Razor away, and I was left alone in the house. There's seven people living in this place altogether -- eight if you count Pet, who's like a semi-official lodger now.

 Appropriate name, don't you think? We joke about it lots. "Our tenancy agreement says no pets," I'll say. She's cute. But anyway, even though there's eight people here, it's not often we're all around at the same time. That's a good thing, because human beings need their space. That's a proven fact.

 When the police took Razor away, though, I really didn't want to be alone. I texted everyone and told them to come back to the house. I didn't tell them any more than that, because I didn't want to say it over the phone -- least of all the funky retro one with the dial. I knew there'd be a wait before people got back, so I carried on painting. I'm repainting the living room. The wallpaper in there is vile -- truly awful, 70's tack. Glittery blue with silver swooshes. It's not even ironic.

 I had about half a wall done when Samantha came back. Out of everyone, she was the person I didn't want to break the news to. Not because of Barry but because of Razor. Their whole "special relationship" thing.

 So, as soon as I tell her Barry's dead and Razor's been arrested for his murder, she slips into some kind of denial. That's all I can call it -- she's the psychologist, not me -- it was like she refused to take it on board and started having a go at me for not doing the paint job properly. She said you're supposed to strip the wallpaper off first, anyone knows that, and I should've put some sheets down because I was getting flecks of paint on the furniture and on the carpet. I didn't admit this at the time, but I was doing it intentionally -- I wanted a faint Jackson Pollock vibe about the place. I knew she was upset about Barry and Razor, so I said I was sorry, but she just kept on at me, saying how stupid I was, and eventually I had to take her by the shoulders, and look her square in the face and tell her, "Sam, did you hear what I said? Barry's dead. They've taken his body away, and they've taken Razor, because they think he killed him."

 She wouldn't speak. She wouldn't look me in the eyes.

 I shook her, and said, "Did you hear me, Sam? This is serious. This is really happening."

 She said, "Get off me," so I let go, and she wrapped her arms around me, pressing herself up against my maternity dungarees with the paint stains.

 I've got another confession to make. When she hugged me like that, and wept in my arms, clinging to me like a favourite teddy ... well ... it felt awfully nice.

 A short time since, I applied to the President and Council of the Royal Society, for copies of the Greenwich Observations, which were necessary for an inquiry on which I was at that time engaged. Being naturally anxious to economize the small funds I can devote to science, the request appeared to me a reasonable one. It was, however, refused; and I was at the same time informed that the Observations could be purchased at the bookseller's. [This was a mistake; Mr. Murray has not copies of the Greenwich Observations prior to 1823.] When I consider that practical astronomy has not occupied a very prominent place in my pursuits, I feel disposed, on that ground, to acquiesce in the propriety of the refusal. This excuse can, however, be of no avail for similar refusals to other gentlemen, who applied nearly at the same time with myself, and whose time had been successfully devoted to the cultivation of that science. [M. Bessel, at the wish of the Royal Academy of Berlin, projected a plan for making a very extensive map of the heavens. Too vast for any individual to attempt, it was proposed that a portion should be executed by the astronomers of various countries, and invitations to this effect were widely circulated. One only of the divisions of this map was applied for by any English astronomer; and, after completing the portion of the map assigned to him, he undertook another, which had remained unprovided for. This gentleman, the Rev. Mr. Hussey, was one of the rejected applicants for the Greenwich Observations.]

 We weren't allowed to stay in the house, but no one had anywhere else to go, so the police booked us all into a B&B on the other side of town.

 The place was very oldy-worldy in that quaint English way that always makes me feel faintly ill. Still, the pillows were an absolute luxury compared to my lumpy, sweat-stained old potato sacks back at home. We stayed there for a week, but it could have been ten times longer as far as I was concerned. It was like a little holiday.

 The night we moved into the B&B, the whole gang piled into my room and we stayed up all night talking and watching TV. Pet and Gogo stayed in their room across the hallway, but everyone else was there. Razor arrived at 7.30 in the morning. The police released him after having kept him awake all night with questioning. Dunder and Foxy were crashed out on the carpet. They'd brought their duvets downstairs, and it felt like a proper sleepover from back in the day.

 As it happens, it was an awfully fun night. It sounds bad to say it -- really awful -- but we bonded, which can only be a good thing. Sometimes good things come out of bad things ... Is there a proverb that runs something along those lines? There must be. I can't think of one, but there must be. Not "good things come out of bad things," because not all bad things have good consequences, but some good things. To hell with it. Let's just say, "some good things come out of some bad things" and leave it at that.

 Me and Samantha -- or "Samantha and I," should I say -- were still awake. We'd been talking all night about anything and everything. I don't think we even mentioned Barry once, which makes me feel a little guilty. I also felt a little guilty about sitting up talking with Samantha all night -- she's Razor's girl after all. It's not like we did anything physical, but sometimes conversation can be the most intimate act of all.

 When Razor walked through the door, we were both so pleased to see him, we took it in turns to give him a hug. He told us all about how the police had questioned him for hours about Barry's murder, but they had to let him go because they didn't have any evidence. Apparently, they'd be in contact with everyone in due course to get their stories. I made some remark about wondering who on earth would want to do something like that, but Razor got the wrong end of the stick and said I was accusing him. I understood why he got angry -- it had been a long night -- but his shouting woke up Dunder and Foxy, which may have been just as well, because people had to get up and go to work.

 He stormed through to his allocated room, and Samantha followed him. I thought it would be best to leave them to it.

 There was, however, another ground on which I had weakly anticipated a different result;--but those who occupy official situations, rendered remarkable by the illustrious names of their predecessors, are placed in no enviable station; and, if their own acquirements are confessedly insufficient to keep up the high authority of their office, they must submit to the mortifications of their false position. I am sure, therefore, that the President and officers of the Royal Society must have sympathized MOST DEEPLY with me, when they felt it their duty to propose that the Society over which Newton once presided, should refuse so trifling an assistance to the unworthy possessor of the chair he once filled.

 The other good thing about that night was that I got to watch Foxy sleeping -- another of those intimate moments. Throughout my conversation with Samantha, I was picking up Foxy's gentle puffs of air. They were calming, like whale song. I kept looking down at her body, curled up in the duvet, with her arse poking tantalisingly out the back.

 I slept with Foxy once, last year. In the morning, I thought we might be boyfriend and girlfriend, but she started talking utter nonsense, accusing me of only doing it out of sympathy. "Pity" she called it. I said, "Foxy, I like you. Really. I don't do pity -- I'm really not a pleasant enough person. I just follow my instincts." She said, OK, she believed me, but we couldn't take it any further. The whole thing was a mistake. I believed that for a while, but I've been watching her recently, while she's making a cup of coffee or watching TV. I went in her room the other day while she was out. I know it was a bad thing to do. I just wanted to smell her. I buried my face in the sheets. I hope I'm not getting obsessed, or even worse, falling in love. Maybe I just want to sleep with her again. Maybe that's all it is.

 Foxy, apparently, was nicknamed ironically. She's not a conventional beauty by any means, so kids in the playground being as they are -- all fine when they're on their own, but unimaginable horrors as a group -- like a microcosm of society, I suppose -- they called her Foxy as a cruel joke. Or that's what she says. I suspect there's more to it than that, because if the name was so hurtful to her, it doesn't explain why she's stuck with it, and introduces herself as Foxy to strangers. Anyway, I love the name. I think it's highly appropriate too, because the woman has something otherworldly about her. It shouldn't work -- it really shouldn't work. One of her eyes is higher up on her face than the other. Everything is an odd size. Her nose is twice the size it should be. Even her butt-cheeks are asymmetrical.

 I can also report from exquisite personal experience that Foxy's natural hair is purest ginger, in contrast to the jet-black dye that smothers her scalp. If I were feeling cynical, I might suggest that it's that very principle kick-started the whole goth movement (or whatever they're calling it these days) -- pale-faced ginger kids dying their hair to avoid the teasing. With some people, it's disastrous, but with Foxy it works. She should look like a witch -- no offence to Foxy, or to witches. I think she's beautiful.

 In reply to my application to the President and Council, to be allowed a copy of the Greenwich Observations, I was informed that, "The number of copies placed by government at the disposal of the Royal Society, was insufficient to supply the demands made on them by various learned bodies in Europe; and, consequently, they were unable, however great their inclination, to satisfy the wishes of individual applicants."

 According to Razor, the police believe there is no doubt about the violent nature of Barry's death. He was strangled and stabbed. It's obvious to me that no one in this house would ever do anything like that. I can only assume it was a break in. Whoever killed him obviously wanted to make sure they made a proper job of it. In a way, you could say they killed him twice. The strange thing is, the weapons they used were already in the house -- they didn't bring their own. They stabbed him with a kitchen knife, and they strangled him -- this is the strange part ... they strangled him with a pair of socks. A pair of socks, for heaven's sake. How awful is that? Really -- how awful?

 SAMANTHA:

 Razor is a classic case of post-traumatic stress. Because of what happened to him in prison, physical thingamy makes him very uncomfortable. He doesn't even like sitting close to someone on the couch. That's why he's the right man for me. He doesn't know it yet, but that's what he is. My whatsit. No two ways about it. He's not going to use me for my body, because he's not interested in my body. He's getting better, though. We held hands last Tuesday at breakfast.

 There seem to be a lot of eerie coincidences in our story -- which is a love story, even though Razor doesn't know it yet. Here I am writing a thesis on post-traumatic stress when along comes this man -- tall, dark, handsome, scarred -- a classic PTS whatyamacallit. Fate handed me a guinea pig and a thingy all rolled into one.

 Wait. Stop. We're getting ahead of ourselves. We haven't even seen each other semi-naked yet, never mind mentioning thingy.

 Morgan sailed from Jamaica on 14th August 1670 with eleven vessels and 600 men for the Isle la Vache, the usual rendezvous, whence during the next three months squadrons were detailed to the coast of Cuba and the mainland of South America to collect provisions and intelligence.

 Sir William Godolphin was at that moment in Madrid concluding articles for the establishment of peace and friendship in America; and on 12th June Secretary Arlington wrote to Modyford that in view of these negotiations his Majesty commanded the privateers to forbear all hostilities on land against the Spaniards.

 I suppose I'm jealous of Razor, in a way. By that I mean I want my own problems to be easily explainable. I'll be the first to admit I'm an emotional oojamaflip. I just have no idea why. You can speculate all you like -- blame my cold-hearted parents, or my string of failed sexual relationships. It's just guesswork. The conclusion that many prefer to reach is that some people are a bit thingy.

 Well, kiss farewell to the old Sam. Razor's changing things. This is going to be nothing like the last four times. I can feel it already. The boy stops me from thinking like a scientist. I'm not logical when I'm with him. Not everything needs a whatsit. An explanation.

 Like this whole "murder" malarkey. I don't mean to speak ill of the dead, but Barry was a tosser. I'm mildly curious as to who killed him, but it's not going to keep me awake. I didn't do it, and Razor didn't do it. That's good enough for me.

 These orders reached Jamaica on 13th August, whereupon the governor recalled Morgan, who had sailed from the harbour the day before, and communicated them to him, "strictly charging him to observe the same and behave with all moderation possible in carrying on the war." The admiral replied that necessity would compel him to land in the Spaniards' country for wood, water and provisions, but unless he was assured that the enemy in their towns were making hostile preparations against the Jamaicans, he would not touch any of them.

 First and foremost, I'm not kidding myself that I'm trying to "fix" Razor. There's nothing about him that needs fixing. I know that he's prone to losing his temper. That just means he's passionate. Doesn't it?

 On 6th September, however, Vice-Admiral Collier with six sail and 400 men was dispatched by Morgan to the Spanish Main. There on 4th November he seized, in the harbour of Santa Marta, two frigates laden with provisions for Maracaibo. Then coasting eastward to Rio de la Hacha, he attacked and captured the fort with its commander and all its garrison, sacked the city, held it to ransom for salt, maize, meat and other provisions, and after occupying it for almost a month returned on 28th October to the Isle la Vache. One of the frigates captured at Santa Marta, "La Gallardina," had been with Pardal when he burnt the coast of Jamaica. Pardal's own ship of fourteen guns had been captured but a short time before by Captain John Morris at the east end of Cuba, and Pardal himself shot through the neck and killed.

 Who the fuck is reading about pirates?

 Dunno, it's probably Craig's. You know what he's like with his second-hand books.

 "The Buccaneers In The West Indies In The XVII Century" by Clarence Henry Harding. Jesus Christ, why can't he read normal books?

 I don't think he actually reads them, Gogo.

 No?

 No, I think he "collects" them.

 Why? What does he collect them for?

 You tell me.

 I don't know.

 No, but you could offer an opinion -- you usually do.

 OK, he's a prick.

 I knew you were going to say that. Feel better now?

 Yes, actually.

 What do you want for dinner?

 Sex.

 Nice try, Gogo. I'm not in the mood.

 Is it because I've been slagging off your new friend Craig?

 No.

 You could just go and fuck him if you like. Everyone else does.

 Maybe I will.

 Christ I was only joking.

 So was I. You're not jealous, are you?

 I've got nothing to be jealous of. Just try living here a bit longer, and you'll see what I mean. Fucking pirates, indeed ...

 He was called by the Jamaicans "the vapouring admiral of St. Jago," for in June he had nailed a piece of canvas to a tree on the Jamaican coast, with a curious challenge written both in English and Spanish:--

 "I, Captain Manuel Rivero Pardal, to the chief of the squadron of privateers in Jamaica. I am he who this year have done that which follows. I went on shore at Caimanos, and burnt 20 houses, and fought with Captain Ary, and took from him a catch laden with provisions and a canoe. And I am he who took Captain Baines and did carry the prize to Cartagena, and now am arrived to this coast, and have burnt it. And I come to seek General Morgan, with 2 ships of 20 guns, and having seen this, I crave he would come out upon the coast and seek me, that he might see the valour of the Spaniards. And because I had no time I did not come to the mouth of Port Royal to speak by word of mouth in the name of my king, whom God preserve. Dated the 5th of July 1670."

 I like living here. I never thought I'd say that, because sharing a house with a bunch of strangers certainly wasn't my first thingy. I've been here for six months, and it's taken me that long to settle in. You don't realize how crazy people are until you live with them. That's how I got into this situation in the first place -- moving in with another unsuitable man, despite being warned off him by friends and family. When it didn't work out, I had no other choice. I couldn't afford to stay on my own, and there was no way I was moving in with any of those "I told you so's".

 It's funny the things you learn about people when you live with them. You can tell a lot about someone from their eating habits.

 Razor takes so much pleasure in eating, after all that institutional canteen crap. He feasts on the food of freedom -- McDonalds, KFC, Dominoes Pizza -- things he didn't have access to inside. To Razor, a Big Mac is an obscene luxury. I like sitting across from him and watching him devour one, like some half-starved whatchamacallit.

 Barry ate two tubes of Pringles for dinner. Breakfast was a bag of Doritos. I suppose he must've eaten other things, but I never saw him touch anything other than crisps. I'm sure if he hadn't been thingied, a heart attack would've seen him off soon enough.

 Craig has meat with every meal -- bacon in the morning, chicken sandwich at lunchtime, and the flesh of various other animals in the night. But he wants to be vegetarian. He talks about it all the time. Every time he eats meat, he feels genuinely thingy about it. Sometimes it makes him physically sick, but he can't stop. (I've scoured my textbooks for a match for Craig's personality type, but I've drawn a blank. Freud would've had a field day. He's a genuine one-off.)

 Pet and Gogo eat off the same plate. They've done it ever since they started going out. If they're having pie and chips, they'll have half a pie each, half a plate of chips, and split the vegetables. They feed each other too, like babies. Foxy says it makes her feel slightly sick, but I think it's cute. I wonder, are they just doing it for show, or do they do it when there's other people around? I don't know if they've lost weight, but I'm sure they're both looking whatsit.

 Dunder mainly survives off liquid. He's totally unapologetic about his drinking, but insists he isn't addicted. The man necks a can of Special Brew for breakfast. Still, he doesn't hurt anyone. He isn't an aggressive drunk. He just likes a drink, he says, and that's all there is to it. One day, I'd like to sit down and talk things through with him, and perhaps try to uncover what's made him the way he is, but that's not going to happen if he continues to insist he drinks out of choice rather than compulsion. (Second thoughts, whatsit. I can't be bothered.)

 Foxy hardly eats at all. All she ever eats is salad and the occasional banana. She's still overweight, though -- that's what I don't understand. I think she might have secret take-away whatsits when no one's watching. Bless her.

 Meanwhile, in the middle of October, there sailed into Port Royal three privateers, Captains Prince, Harrison and Ludbury, who six weeks before had ascended the river San Juan in Nicaragua with 170 men and again plundered the unfortunate city of Granada. The town had rapidly decayed, however, under the repeated assaults of the buccaneers, and the plunderers secured only £20 or £30 per man. Modyford reproved the captains for acting without commissions, but "not deeming it prudent to press the matter too far in this juncture," commanded them to join Morgan at the Isle la Vache.[291] There Morgan was slowly mustering his strength.

 Razor was nicknamed ironically. It dates back to his schooldays. He was an early developer, and got a beard at fourteen. He didn't shave it off, because it made him look thingy. He could buy beer in shops. He didn't mind the nickname either -- it made him sound like a gangster. Not that he'll ever hurt a fly. He's a gentle giant, my Razor. People expect him to be a murderer because he's big. Negative stereotyping, that's all it is. That's all. It's just another kind of prejudice. That's all it is. Another kind of prejudice.

 He negotiated with the French of Tortuga and Hispaniola who were then in revolt against the régime of the French Company; and he added to his forces seven ships and 400 men sent him by the indefatigable Governor of Jamaica. On 7th October, indeed, the venture was almost ruined by a violent storm which cast the whole fleet, except the Admiral's vessel, upon the shore.

 I don't want to spoil things by getting to know him too well. That always happens, and it has to stop. I don't want to discover too much about his past, and I don't want to know everything that goes on in his head. It would take away the mystery, and it's the mystery I'm attracted to. There's something magical about him, and if I were to work out what it is, the magic would be destroyed. There's no such thing as magic, after all. It's all just trickery. This is the problem with getting to know people too well. You realize how thingy human beings really are.

 PET AND GOGO:

 Next day was Sunday. Miss Randolph went to the English church, which is the prettiest I've ever seen in France, and afterwards, escorted by the chaplain with whom she'd made friends, went forth to see the sights, while I inquired as to how we might best proceed upon our way. While Miss Randolph and Miss Kedison read their prayer-books, I studied that useful volume, Les Routes de France, and was duly warned against the impracticable roads of the Landes. The one thing to do, according to the oracle, was to return to Bordeaux and make a long détour to Bayonne by Mont de Marsan. I knew Miss Randolph would dislike this plan, for she hates going back, and so do I. If I had been alone, or with you, I would have chanced it without a moment's hesitation, making straight for Bayonne by way of the forbidden Landes, with all its pitfalls. But I funked the idea of perhaps getting Her into a mess--and hearing Aunt Mary say "I told you so," as she invariably does when there's any trouble.

 Can you pass me that lighter, babe?

 You need to slow down with those things, Gogo. You've been chain-smoking since Barry died.

 It's got nothing to do with Barry. Trust me.

 It's OK, you know. It's OK to be stressed when your housemate's been murdered. What did the cops say to you the other day?

 Same thing they said to everyone else, I expect. It's like Chinese Whispers. They're making a big deal about what they call the "relationship" between Barry and Razor. Makes me laugh. Makes it sound like they were fucking.

 Maybe they were.

 Really? You can see that, can you?

 What did you say to them?

 Who?

 The cops?

 What about?

 About Barry and Razor's "relationship"?

 I said there wasn't any "relationship." Barry got on Razor's tits, just like he did with everyone else. Razor went too far, but I don't blame him, in a way.

 Don't blame him for what?

 Killing Barry.

 Hold on, hold on. So Razor did it now?

 Well, I wouldn't say it to his face, but yeah, of course he fucking killed him. I don't think anyone else round here has it in them.

 Aren't you worried?

 What do you mean?

 Aren't you worried that Razor will kill you too?

 Why would he want to kill me?

 I don't know. For accusing him of Barry's murder, maybe?

 I told you, I'm not going to actually tell him ... I'll probably just stay out of his way for a while.

 To my joy, however, plucky Parson Radcliff had actually advanced the idea of the Landes, during their excursion, and the Goddess sent for me on Sunday evening, full of enthusiasm. Far be it from me to dampen the ardour of youth; and early on Monday morning we started to follow the route La Teste, Sanguinet, Parentis, Yehoux, Liposthey, which names reminded Miss Randolph of Gulliver's Travels.

 

 Hey, hey, stop it -- why are you tearing up that book?

 I ran out of Rizlas.

 You can't just tear pages out of books -- it's barbaric.

 It depends on what the book is, though, doesn't it? This is just another one of Craig's "curiosities". Pretentious fuck. Look at this: "The Lightening Conductor: The Strange Adventures of a Motor Car" by C.N. and A.M. Adamson. It's a travel guide from 1903.

 Sounds interesting.

 Really?

 Do you think it's worth something?

 If it's worth something, I'm definitely smoking my way through the lot. That'll teach him.

 What exactly will it teach him?

 Babe, he doesn't actually read any of these books. He sticks them on the coffee table to make himself look intellectual. He uses them as doorstops. He's an idiot. I'd be surprised if he even knows how to read.

 OK. Point taken. Move on.

 I can't move on. I hate the guy.

 You hate everyone.

 Not true. I love you. I hate everyone else. Doesn't that make you feel special?

 She and I were in fine spirits, expecting the unexpected, and bracing ourselves to encounter difficulties. There was mystery in the very thought of the Landes--that strange waste of forest and sand so little known outside its own people. I felt it, and so did Miss Randolph, I knew. How I knew I couldn't explain to you; but some electric current usually communicates her mood to me, and I should almost believe from various signs that it was so with her in regard to me, if I weren't a mere chauffeur in the lady's pay.

 It's like this whole "house meeting" business. Next time he calls a house meeting, I'm abstaining.

 Well, I know you don't agree with me, but I think Craig's house meetings are a good idea. It's a way for people to communicate -- everyone gets their say. It's democratic.

 Democracy? Don't make me laugh. We're living in a fucking dictatorship. The problem with that twat is, he thinks this is his house. It's like this business with him painting the living room. How many people did he consult about that? None of us.

 He consulted me.

 What?

 Anyway, that wallpaper was horrific. Really bad. No one liked it. Now we've got nice white walls. He was doing you all a favor.

 He consulted you? He consulted you and not me? You don't even live here! Officially, I mean...

 What does it matter? People think of me as being an extension of you. "Pet and Gogo" they call us. It's like we're one person.

 Well, as sweet as that sounds, I've got news for them -- we're not one person. They can all fuck themselves to hell. I'm finished with them.

 You always say that.

 For some distance the going was good, but we were only reading the preface to the true

 Landes as yet; and when we reached the boundary post between the department of the Gironde and the real Landes, there was one of those sudden, complete changes I've mentioned in the quality of the road. To drive into this dim, pine-clad region was like driving back into the years a century or two. A motorcar was an anachronism, and if we came to grief our blood was upon our own heads. The way became grass-grown and rutty, and I was obliged to drive slowly. Deeper and deeper we penetrated into the forest, and deeper and deeper also we sank into the soft earth. Aunt Mary groaned and prophesied disaster as we crawled along in ruts up to our axles; but I think Miss Randolph and I would have perished sooner than retreat. I trusted in the Napier and she trusted in me. In one place the road had been mended with a covering of loose rocks rather than stones; we panted and crunched our way over them, enormously to the astonishment of the road-menders and one or two dark-faced peasants, perched like cranes on the old-fashioned stilts not yet utterly abandoned as a means of navigating this sea of sand and pines. Still, on we went, the engine labouring a little, like an overworked heart; but it was a loyal heart, and the tyres were trumps.

 What shall we have for dinner then, babe?

 Dunno. Howsabout some spag boll? We could eat it on the table in the living room, like Lady and the Tramp.

 Actually, can I ask a favour, babe?

 What is it, babe?

 Could we eat on separate plates tonight? I'm really hungry.

 Miss Randolph said that if she were a tyre and condemned to such hard labour, she would burst out of sheer spite. I think Miss Kedison nearly did so as it was; but as for us (I suppose you can't conceive the satisfaction to a poor chauffeur of bracketing his lady and himself familiarly as "us"), we were intoxicated by the heavy balsam of the turpentine, for which every tree we passed was being sliced. On each a great flake of the trunk had been struck off with an axe, and a small earthen cup affixed to catch the resin, which is the heart's blood of the wounded tree. There was something Dante-esque in the effect of these bleeding wounds, among old, scarcely healed scars; and that effect was intensified by the shadowy gloom of the dense forest, and the never-ceasing sound of the wind among the high, dark branches, like the beating of surf upon an unseen shore.

 If you like.

 FOXY:

 Most days I'm fine. I can get through the day just as well as the next girl. Just not today. It's an off day, that's all.

 I tend to eat more when I'm nervous. I haven't got a problem with food, like some people think. I just don't like people watching me. This evening I went down the Chinese and got a chicken chow mein, which I stuffed into my handbag so I could smuggle it up to my room. I lit an incense stick to disguise the smell. It put me off the food a bit. It was like there was someone sitting next to me smoking.

 I might just be kidding myself. It's not just an off day, is it? My housemate was murdered two weeks ago, and no one knows who did it. I've never been so scared in my life, and I've never felt so alone. There's no one I can talk to about it, because the killer could be any one of us. How can I trust anyone after this? I was on shaky ground to begin with. I need to get out of here. I want to go up to Scotland and stay with my mum for a few days, but something's stopping me. Razor's already been arrested and released. Maybe if I leave, they'll think I'm acting suspiciously. Maybe they'll arrest me too. At least Razor's been to prison before, so he knows the drill. How would I handle the questioning? Maybe I'd crack like you see them do on the TV. I'd end up saying I did it just to shut the bastards up.

 The worst part is, I'm not sad about Barry's death. The last time I saw him, we were sitting in the living room watching The Real Hustle, and he was flicking Cheesy Wotsits at my head. I got that orange flavouring in my hair. I told him to stop it, and he just giggled. I shut myself in my room after that.

 I'm glad he's dead.

 The internal organs of insects are similar to those of other animals. The digestive tube consists of oesophagus, gizzard, or stomach, and intestines. The nervous system is well developed as shown by the extreme sensitiveness of insects to touch. The brain is comparatively small except in the bees and ants. The circulatory system consists simply of a long tube heart, the blood vessels being absent. In this way the internal organs of the insect are simply bathed in the blood. The system of respiration is most complicated. The air is taken in through pores usually along the side of the body and is then carried through fine tracheal tubes to all parts of the body. You cannot drown an insect by putting its head under water, since it does not breathe through its mouth. The muscular system is similar to that of other animals which have the skeleton on the outside.

 I started reading this book I found in the living room called "Elementory Study of Insects" by Leonard Haseman. The inside cover says it was published in 1923. I can't get into it, though. Those paint fumes from downstairs are giving me a headache. Or is it just the stress? I don't know why I agreed to let Craig paint the living room. He hasn't exactly done a good job. I know I'm in a minority, but I quite liked that wallpaper. It reminded me of my gran's when I was a kid.

 I'm not going to argue about it, though. For all I know, Craig's the killer. I've always had a funny feeling about him. I slept with him one night last year after one too many drinks. It was enough to make me want to give up booze. I catch him looking at me sometimes. I feel like turning round and saying, "What? What are you staring at?" I wonder if he's got any pictures of me on his phone. I might steal it one day and delete them.

 [Illustration: The internal organs of the honey bee. Note the strong wing muscles in the thorax. The tube-like heart begins in the head and extends back through the thorax and follows the curve of the abdomen. Below the heart is the digestive tube consisting of the slender oesophagus which extends back to the expanded honey stomach, in which the bee carries the nectar it collects from flowers, then the curled true stomach, the small intestine and expanded large intestine. Below this is the nervous system consisting of the brain and a chain of connected enlargements or ganglia extending back into the abdomen in the lower part of the body. The respiratory system in part appears just above the honey stomach, and the black circular or oval spots are cross sections of connecting air tubes, which run all through the body. Also note the sting with the poison gland and sack which are pulled out with the sting; also the sucking tube for getting honey from flowers, and the structures on the legs for gathering and carrying pollen; the pollen basket is on the back side of the hind leg.]

 I can't be bothered anymore. From now on, I'm only going to communicate with my housemates by email.

 You can tell a lot about someone from the name they pick for their email address. Samantha's is hop-scotch-wannabe@tiscali.co.uk. Like Samantha herself, this is a bit of an enigma. I don't know what a hop scotch wannabe is, so I guess it's a personal joke.

 Craig's is crushedwitheyeliner@hotmail.com. Enough said about Craig, really.

 Gogo's email address is his real name -- neil.swanson@gmail.com. I know it's hard to believe, but apparently Gogo was quite a party animal a few years back. That's how he got his nickname. It's because he was such a bad dancer. An ironic name, from a former life. I've been living in this house for a year, and I've never seen him celebrate anything. I wonder what happened to stop the party. Gogo and Craig were best friends once upon a time. Now they're never seen in the same room. Maybe moving in together was a bad idea. People say you don't really get to know someone until you live with them. I'm not sure that's true. I'm not sure if you can ever get to know anyone.

 Dunder hasn't got an email address. I'm not sure what that says about him. Maybe it just means he can't afford a computer.

