Wind howled through the night, carrying a scent that would change the world. A tall Shade lifted his head and sniffed the air. He looked human except for his
crimson hair and maroon eyes.

He blinked in surprise. The message had been correct: they were here. Or was it a trap? He weighed the odds, then said icily, "Spread out; hide behind trees and
bushes. Stop whoever is coming ... or die."

Around him shuffled twelve Urgals with short swords and round iron shields painted with black symbols. They resembled men with bowed legs and thick, brutish
arms made for crushing. Apair of twisted horns grew above their small ears. The monsters hurried into the brush, grunting as they hid. Soon the rustling quieted and the
forest was silent again

The Shade peered around a thick tree and looked up the trail It was too dark for any human to see, but for him the feint moonlight was like sunshine streaming
between the trees; every detail was clear and sharp to his searching gaze. He remained unnaturally quiet, a long pale sword in his hand. A wire- thin scratch curved down
the blade. The weapon was thin enough to slip between a pair of ribs, yet stout enough to hack through the hardest armor.

The Urgals could not see as well as the Shade; they groped like blind beggars, fumbling with their weapons. An owl screeched, cutting through the silence. No one
relaxed until the bird flew past. Then the monsters shivered in the cold night; one snapped a twig with his heavy boot. The Shade hissed in anger, and the Urgals shrank
back, motionless. He suppressed his distaste — they smelled like fetid meat — and turned away. They were tools, nothing more.

The Shade forced back his impatience as the minutes became hours. The scent must have wafted iar ahead of its owners. He did not let the Urgals get up or warm
themselves. He denied himself those luxuries, too, and stayed behind the tree, watching the trail Another gust of wind rushed through the forest. The smell was stronger
this time. Excited, he lifted a thin lip in a snarl

"Get ready," he whispered, his whole body vibrating. The tip of his sword moved in small circles. It had taken many plots and much pain to bring himself to this
moment. It would not do to lose control now.

Eyes brightened under the Urgals' thick brows, and the creatures gripped their weapons tighter. Ahead of them, the Shade heard a clink as something hard struck a
loose stone. Faint smudges emerged from the darkness and advanced down the trail

Three white horses with riders cantered toward the ambush, their heads held high and proud, their coats rippling in the moonlight like liquid silver.

On the first horse was an elf with pointed ears and elegantly slanted eyebrows. His build was slim but strong, like a rapier. A powerful bow was slung on his back.
A sword pressed against his side opposite a quiver of arrows fletched with swan feathers.

The last rider had the same lair lace and angled features as the other. He carried a long spear in his right hand and a white dagger at his belt. A helm of extraordinary
craftsmanship, wrought with amber and gold, rested on his head.

Between these two rode a raven-haired elven lady, who surveyed her surroundings with poise. Framed by long black locks, her deep eyes shone with a driving
force. Her clothes were unadorned, yet her beauty was undiminished. At her side was a sword, and on her back a long bow with a quiver. She carried in her lap a
pouch that she frequently looked at, as if to reassure herself that it was still there.

One of the elves spoke quietly, but the Shade could not hear what was said. The lady answered with obvious authority, and her guards switched places. The one
wearing the helm took the lead, shifting his spear to a readier grip. They passed the Shade's hiding place and the first few Urgals without suspicion.

The Shade was already savoring his victory when the wind changed direction and swept toward the elves, heavy with the Urgals' stench. The horses snorted with
alarm and tossed their heads. The riders stiffened, eyes flashing from side to side, then wheeled their mounts around and galloped away.

The lady's horse surged forward, leaving her guards fer behind. Forsaking their hiding, the Urgals stood and released a stream of black arrows. The Shade jumped
out from behind the tree, raised his right hand, and shouted, "Garjzla!"

A red bolt flashed from his palm toward the elven lady, illuminating the trees with a bloody light. It struck her steed, and the horse toppled with a high-pitched
squeal, plowing into the ground chest- first. She leapt off the animal with inhuman speed, landed lightly, then glanced back for her guards.

The Urgals' deadly arrows quickly brought down the two elves. They fell from the noble horses, blood pooling in the dirt. As the Urgals rushed to the slain elves,
the Shade screamed, "After her! She is the one I want!" The monsters grunted and rushed down the trail

A cry tore from the elf s lips as she saw her dead companions. She took a step toward them, then cursed her enemies and bounded into the forest.

While the Urgals crashed through the trees, the Shade climbed a piece of granite that jutted above them. Fromhis perch he could see all of the surrounding forest.
He raised his hand and uttered, "Boetq istalri!" and a quarter-mile section of the forest exploded into flames. Grimly he burned one section after another until there was
a ring of fire, a half- league across, around the ambush site. The flames looked like a molten crown resting on the forest. Satisfied, he watched the ring carefully, in case it
should filter.

The band of fire thickened, contracting the area the Urgals had to search. Suddenly, the Shade heard shouts and a coarse scream Through the trees he saw three of
his charges fall in a pile, mortally wounded. He caught a glimpse of the elf running from the remaining Urgals.

She fled toward the craggy piece of granite at a tremendous speed. The Shade examined the ground twenty feet below, then jumped and landed nimbly in front of
her. She skidded around and sped back to the trail Black Urgal blood dripped from her sword, staining the pouch in her hand.

The horned monsters came out of the forest and hemmed her in, blocking the only escape routes. Her head whipped around as she tried to find a way out. Seeing
none, she drew herself up with regal disdain The Shade approached her with a raised hand, allowing himself to enjoy her helplessness.

"Get her."

As the Urgals surged forward, the elf pulled open the pouch, reached into it, and then let it drop to the ground. In her hands was a large sapphire stone that reflected
the angry light of the fires. She raised it over her head, lips forming frantic words. Desperate, the Shade barked, "Garjzla!"

A ball of red flame sprang from his hand and flew toward the elf. last as an arrow. But he was too late. A flash of emerald light briefly illuminated the forest, and the
stone vanished. Then the red fire smote her and she collapsed.

The Shade howled in rage and stalked forward, flinging his sword at a tree. It passed halfway through the trunk, where it stuck, quivering. He shot nine bolts of
energy from his palm — which killed the Urgals instantly — then ripped his sword free and strode to the elf

Prophecies of revenge, spoken in a wretched language only he knew, rolled from his tongue. He clenched his thin hands and glared at the sky. The cold stars stared
back, unwinking, otherworldly watchers. Disgust curled his lip before he turned back to the unconscious elf

Her beauty, which would have entranced any mortal man, held no charm for him. He confirmed that the stone was gone, then retrieved his horse from its hiding



place among the trees. After tying the elf onto the saddle, he mounted the charger and made his way out of the woods.
He quenched the fires in his path but left the rest to burn.



DISCOVERY

.C/ragon knelt in a bed of trampled reed grass and scanned the tracks with a practiced eye. The prints told him that the deer had been in the meadow only a half-
hour before. Soon they would bed down His target, a small doe with a pronounced limp in her left forefoot, was still with the herd. He was amazed she had made it so
far without a wolf or bear catching her.

The sky was clear and dark, and a slight breeze stirred the air. A silvery cloud drifted over the mountains that surrounded him, its edges glowing with ruddy light cast
from the harvest moon cradled between two peaks. Streams flowed down the mountains from stolid glaciers and glistening snowpacks. A brooding mist crept along the
valley's floor, almost thick enough to obscure his feet.

Eragon was fifteen, less than a year from manhood. Dark eyebrows rested above his intense brown eyes. His clothes were worn from work. A hunting knife with a
bone handle was sheathed at his belt, and a buckskin tube protected his yew bow from the mist. He carried a wood- frame pack.

The deer had led him deep into the Spine, a range of untamed mountains that extended up and down the land of Alagaesia. Strange tales and men often came from
those mountains, usually boding ill. Despite that, Eragon did not fear the Spine — he was the only hunter near Carvahall who dared track game deep into its craggy
recesses.

It was the third night of the hunt, and his food was half gone. If he did not fell the doe, he would be forced to return home empty-handed. His iamiry needed the
meat for the rapidly approaching winter and could not afford to buy it in Carvahall.

Eragon stood with quiet assurance in the dusky moonlight, then strode into the forest toward a glen where he was sure the deer would rest. The trees blocked the
sky from view and cast feathery shadows on the ground. He looked at the tracks only occasionally, he knew the way.

At the glen, he strung his bow with a sure touch then drew three arrows and nocked one, holding the others in his left hand. The moonlight revealed twenty or so
motionless lumps where the deer lay in the grass. The doe he wanted was at the edge of the herd, her left foreleg stretched out awkwardly.

Eragon slowly crept cbser, keeping the bow ready. All his work of the past three days had led to this moment. He took a last steadying breath and — an explosion
shattered the night.

The herd bolted. Eragon lunged forward, racing through the grass as a fiery wind surged past his cheek. He slid to a stop and loosed an arrow at the bounding doe.
It missed by a finger's breadth and hissed into darkness. He cursed and spun around, instinctively nocking another arrow.

Behind him, where the deer had been, smoldered a large circle of grass and trees. Many of the pines stood bare of their needles. The grass outside the charring was
flattened. A wisp of smoke curled in the air, carrying a burnt smell In the center of the blast radius lay a polished blue stone. Mist snaked across the scorched area and
swirled insubstantial tendrils over the stone.

Eragon watched for danger for several long minutes, but the only thing that moved was the mist. Cautiously, he released the tension from his bow and moved
forward. Moonlight cast him in pale shadow as he stopped before the stone. He nudged it with an arrow, then jumped back. Nothing happened, so he warily picked it
up.

Nature had never polished a stone as smooth as this one. Its flawless surface was dark blue, except for thin veins of white that spiderwebbed across it. The stone
was cool and frictionless under his fingers, like hardened silk. Oval and about a foot long, it weighed several pounds, though it felt lighter than it should have.

Eragon found the stone both beautiful and frightening Where did it come from? Does it have a purpose? Then a more disturbing thought came to YknWas it sent
here by accident, or am I meant to have it? If he had learned anything from the old stories, it was to treat magic, and those who used it, with great caution

But what should I do with the stone?It would be tiresome to carry, and there was a chance it was dangerous. It might be better to leave it behind. A flicker of
indecision ran through him, and he almost dropped it, but something stayed his hand.^4/ the very least, it might pay for some food, he decided with a shrug, lucking
the stone into his pack.

The glen was too exposed to make a safe camp, so he slipped back into the forest and spread his bedroll beneath the upturned roots of a iallen tree. After a cold
dinner of bread and cheese, he wrapped himself in blankets and fell asleep, pondering what had occurred.



P ALANCARVALLEY

1 he sun rose the next morning with a glorious conflagration of pink and yellow. The air was fresh sweet, and very cold. Ice edged the streams, and small pools

were completely frozen over. After a breakfast of porridge, Eragon returned to the glen and examined the charred area. The morning light revealed no new details, so he
started for home.

The rough game trail was faintly worn and, in places, nonexistent. Because it had been forged by animals, it often backtracked and took long detours. Yet for all its
flaws, it was still the fastest way out of the mountains.

The Spine was one of the only places that King Galbatorix could not call his own. Stories were still told about how half his army disappeared after marching into its
ancient forest. A cloud of misfortune and bad luck seemed to hang over it. Though the trees grew tall and the sky shone brightly few people could stay in the Spine for
long without suffering an accident. Eragon was one of those few — not through any particular gift, it seemed to him, but because of persistent vigilance and sharp reflexes.
He had hiked in the mountains for years, yet he was still wary of them Every time he thought they had surrendered their secrets, something happened to upset his
understanding of them — like the stone's appearance.

He kept up a brisk pace, and the leagues steadily disappeared. In late evening he arrived at the edge of a precipitous ravine. The Anora River rushed by far below,
heading to Palancar Valley. Gorged with hundreds of tiny streams, the river was a brute force, battling against the rocks and boulders that barred its way. A low rumble
filled the air.

He camped in a thicket near the ravine and watched the moonrise before going to bed.

It grew colder over the next day and a half Eragon traveled quickly and saw little of the wary wildlife. A bit past noon, he heard the Igualda Falls blanketing
everything with the dull sound of a thousand splashes. The trail led him onto a moist slate outcropping, which the river sped past, flinging itself into empty air and down
mossy cliffs.

Before him lay Palancar Valley, exposed like an unrolled map. The base of the Igualda Falls, more than a half-mile below, was the northernmost point of the valley.
A little ways from the falls was Carvahall, a cluster of brown buildings. White smoke rose from the chimneys, defiant of the wilderness around it. At this height, farms
were small square patches no bigger than the end of his finger. The land around them was tan or sandy, where dead grass swayed in the wind. The Anora River wound
from the falls toward Palancar 's southern end, reflecting great strips of sunlight. Far in the distance it flowed past the village Therinsford and the lonely mountain Utgard.
Beyond that, he knew only that it turned north and ran to the sea.

After a pause, Eragon left the outcropping and started down the trail, grimacing at the descent. When he arrived at the bottom, soft dusk was creeping over
everything, blurring colors and shapes into gray masses. Carvahall's lights shimmered nearby in the twilight; the houses cast long shadows. Aside from Therinsford,
Carvahall was the only village in Palancar Valley. The settlement was secluded and surrounded by harsh beautiful land. Few traveled here except merchants and
trappers.

The village was composed of stout log buildings with low roofs — some thatched, others shingled. Smoke billowed from the chimneys, giving the air a woody smelL
The buildings had wide porches where people gathered to talk and conduct business. Occasionally a window brightened as a candle or lamp was lit. Eragon heard men
talking loudly in the evening air while wives scurried to fetch their husbands, scolding them for being late.

Eragon wove his way between the houses to the butcher's shop, a broad, thick-beamed building. Overhead, the chimney belched black smoke.

He pushed the door open. The spacious room was warm and well lit by a fire snapping in a stone fireplace. A bare counter stretched across the far side of the
room The floor was strewn with loose straw. Everything was scrupulously clean, as if the owner spent his leisure time digging in obscure crannies for minuscule pieces
of filth Behind the counter stood the butcher Sloan. A small man, he wore a cotton shirt and a long, bloodstained smock. An impressive array of knives swung from his
belt. He had a sallow, pockmarked face, and his black eyes were suspicious. He polished the counter with a ragged cloth

Sloan's mouth twisted as Eragon entered. "Well, the mighty hunter joins the rest of us mortals. How many did you bag this time?"

"None," was Eragon's curt reply He had never liked Sloan. The butcher always treated him with disdain, as if he were something unclean. A widower, Sloan
seemed to care for only one person — his daughter, Katrina, on whom he doted.

"I'm amazed," said Sloan with affected astonishment. He turned his back on Eragon to scrape something off the wall "And that's your reason for coming here?"

'Yes," admitted Eragon uncomfortably.

"If that's the case, let's see your money." Sloan tapped his fingers when Eragon shifted his feet and remained silent. "Come on — either you have it or you don't.
Which is it?"

"I don't really have any money, but I do — "

"What, no money?" the butcher cut him off sharply. "And you expect to buy meat! Are the other merchants giving away their wares? Should I just hand you the
goods without charge? Besides," he said abruptly, "it's late. Come back tomorrow with money. I'm closed for the day."

Eragon glared at him '1 can't wait until tomorrow, Sloan It'll be worth your while, though I found something to pay you with" He pulled out the stone with a
flourish and set it gentry on the scarred counter, where it gleamed with light from the dancing flames.

"Stole it is more likely," muttered Sloan, leaning forward with an interested expression

Ignoring the comment, Eragon asked, "Will this be enough?"

Sloan picked up the stone and gauged its weight speculatively. He ran his hands over its smoothness and inspected the white veins. With a calculating look, he set it
down "It's pretty, but how much is it worth?"

"I don't know," admitted Eragon, "but no one would have gone to the trouble of shaping it unless it had some value."

"Obviously," said Sloan with exaggerated patience. "But how much value? Since you don't know, I suggest that you find a trader who does, or take my offer of
three crowns."

'That's a miser's bargain! It must be worth at least ten times that," protested Eragon. Three crowns would not even buy enough meat to last a week.

Sloan shrugged. "If you don't like my offer, wait until the traders arrive. Either way, I'm tired of this conversation."

The traders were a nomadic group of merchants and entertainers who visited Carvahall every spring and winter. They bought whatever excess the villagers and local
farmers had managed to grow or make, and sold what they needed to live through another year: seeds, animals, fabric, and supplies like salt and sugar.
But Eragon did not want to wait until they arrived; it could be a while, and his family needed the meat now. 'Tine, I accept," he snapped.

"Good, I'll get you the meat. Not that it matters, but where did you find this?"

'Two nights ago in the Spine — "

"Get out!" demanded Sloan, pushing the stone away. He stomped furiously to the end of the counter and started scrubbing old bloodstains offa knife.

"Why?" asked Eragon He drew the stone closer, as if to protect it from Sloan's wrath

T won't deal with anything you bring back from those damned mountains! Take your sorcerer's stone elsewhere." Sloan's hand suddenly slipped and he cut a
finger on the knife, but he seemed not to notice. He continued to scrub, staining the blade with fresh blood.

"You refuse to sell to me!"

"Yes! Unless you pay with coins," Sloan growled, and hefted the knife, sidling away. 'Xjo, before I make you!"

The door behind them slammed open. Eragon whirled around, ready for more trouble. In stomped Horst, a hulking man Sloan's daughter, Katrina — a tall girl of
sixteen — trailed behind him with a determined expression Eragon was surprised to see her; she usually absented herself from any arguments involving her father. Sloan
glanced at them warily, then started to accuse Eragon "He won't — "

"Quiet," announced Horst in a rumbling voice, cracking his knuckles at the same time. He was Carvahall's smith as his thick neck and scarred leather apron
attested. His powerful arms were bare to the elbow; a great expanse of hairy muscular chest was visible through the top of his shirt. A black beard, carelessly trimmed,
roiled and knotted like his jaw muscles. "Sloan, what have you done now?"

"Nothing." He gave Eragon a murderous gaze, then spat, 'This . . .boy came in here and started badgering me. I asked him to leave, but he won't budge. I even
threatened him and he still ignored me!" Sloan seemed to shrink as he looked at Horst.

Ts this true?" demanded the smith

"No!" replied Eragon T offered this stone as payment for some meat, and he accepted it. When I told him that I'd found it in the Spine, he refused to even touch it.
What difference does it make where it came from?"

Horst looked at the stone curiously, then returned his attention to the butcher. "Why won't you trade with him, Sloan? I've no love for the Spine myself, but if it's a
question of the stone's worth I'll back it with my own money."

The question hung in the air for a moment. Then Sloan licked his lips and said, 'This is my own store. I can do whatever I want."

Katrina stepped out from behind Horst and tossed back her auburn hair like a spray of molten copper. 'Tather, Eragonis' willing to pay. Give him the meat, and then
we can have supper."

Sloan's eyes narrowed dangerously. "Go back to the house; this is none of your business. ... I saidgo !" Katrina's face hardened, then she marched out of the
room with a stiff back.

Eragon watched with disapproval but dared not interfere. Horst tugged at his beard before saying reproachfully, 'Tine, you can deal with me. What were you going
to get, Eragon?" His voice reverberated through the room

"As much as I could."

Horst pulled out a purse and counted out a pile of coins. "Give me your best roasts and steaks. Make sure that it's enough to fill Eragon's pack." The butcher
hesitated, his gaze darting between Horst and Eragon "Not selling to me would be a very bad idea," stated Horst.

Glowering venomously, Sloan slipped into the back room. A frenzy of chopping, wrapping, and low cursing reached them After several uncomfortable minutes, he
returned with an armful of wrapped meat. His face was expressionless as he accepted Horst's money, then proceeded to clean his knife, pretending that they were not
there.

Horst scooped up the meat and walked outside. Eragon hurried behind him, carrying his pack and the stone. The crisp night air rolled over their faces, refreshing
after the stuffy shop.

'Thank you, Horst. Uncle Garrow will be pleased."

Horst laughed quietly. "Don't thank me. I've wanted to do that for a long time. Sloan's a vicious troublemaker; it does him good to be humbled. Katrina heard what
was happening and ran to fetch me. Good thing I came — the two of you were almost at blows. Unfortunately, I doubt he'll serve you or any of your family the next time
you go in there, even if you do have coins."

"Why did he explode like that? We've never been friendly, but he's always taken our money. And I've never seen him treat Katrina that way," said Eragon,
opening the top of the pack.

Horst shrugged. "Ask your uncle. He knows more about it than I do."

Eragon stuffed the meat into his pack. "Well, now I have one more reason to hurry home ... to solve this mystery Here, this is rightfully yours." He proffered the
stone.

Horst chuckled. "No, you keep your strange rock. As for payment, Albriech plans to leave for Feinster next spring. He wants to become a master smith and I'm
going to need an assistant. You can come and work off the debt on your spare days."

Eragon bowed slightly, delighted. Horst had two sons, Albriech and Baldor, both of whom worked in his forge. Taking one's place was a generous offer. "Again,
thank you! I look forward to working with you." He was glad that there was a way for him to pay Horst. His uncle would never accept charity Then Eragon
remembered what his cousin had told him before he had left on the hunt. "Roran wanted me to give Katrina a message, but since I can't, can you get it to her?"

"Of course."

"He wants her to know that he'll come into town as soon as the merchants arrive and that he will see her then"

'That all?"

Eragon was slightly embarrassed. "No, he also wants her to know that she is the most beautiful girl he has ever seen and that he thinks of nothing else."

Horst's face broke into a broad grin, and he winked at Eragon 'Xjetting serious, isn't he?"

"Yes, sir," Eragon answered with a quick smile. "Could you also give her my thanks? It was nice of her to stand up to her father for me. I hope that she isn't
punished because of it. Roran would be furious if I got her into trouble."

T wouldn't worry about it. Sloan doesn't know that she called me, so I doubt he'll be too hard on her. Before you go, will you sup with us?"

'I'm sorry, but I can't. Garrow is expecting me," said Eragon, tying off the top of the pack. He hoisted it onto his back and started down the road, raising his hand
in farewell

The meat slowed him down, but he was eager to be home, and renewed vigor filled his steps. The village ended abruptly, and he left its warm lights behind. The
pearlescent moon peeked over the mountains, bathing the land in a ghostly reflection of daylight. Everything looked bleached and flat.

Near the end of his journey, he turned off the road, which continued south A simple path led straight through waist- high grass and up a knoll, almost hidden by the
shadows of protective elm trees. He crested the hill and saw a gentle light shining frombis home.



The house had a shingled roof and a brick chimney. Eaves hung over the whitewashed walls, shadowing the ground below. One side of the enclosed porch was
filled with split wood, ready for the fire. A jumble of farm tools cluttered the other side.

The house had been abandoned for half a century when they moved in after Garrow's wife, Marian, died. It was ten miles from Carvahall, farther than anyone
else's. People considered the distance dangerous because the family could not rely on help from the village in times of trouble, but Eragon's uncle would not listen.

A hundred feet from the house, in a dull- colored barn, lived two horses — Birka and Brugli — with chickens and a cow. Sometimes there was also a pig, but they had
been unable to afford one this year. A wagon sat wedged between the stalls. On the edge of their fields, a thick line of trees traced along the Anora River.

He saw a light move behind a window as he wearily reached the porch "Uncle, it's Eragon. Let me in." A small shutter slid back for a second, then the door swung
inward.

Garrow stood with his hand on the door. His worn clothes hung on him like rags on a stick frame. A lean, hungry face with intense eyes gazed out from under
graying hair. He looked like a man who had been partly mummified before it was discovered that he was still alive. "Roran's sleeping," was his answer to Eragon's
inquiring glance.

A lantern flickered on a wood table so old that the grain stood up in tiny ridges like a giant fingerprint. Near a woodstove were rows of cooking utensils tacked onto
the wall with homemade nails. A second door opened to the rest of the house. The floor was made of boards polished smooth by years of tramping feet.

Eragon pulled off his pack and took out the meat. "What's this? Did you buy meat? Where did you get the money?" asked his uncle harshly as he saw the wrapped
packages.

Eragon took a breath before answering. "No, Horst bought it for us."

'You let him pay for it? I told you before, I won't beg for our food. If we can't feed ourselves, we night as well move into town. Before you can rum around twice,
they'll be sending us used clothes and asking if we'll be able to get through the winter." Garrow's face paled with anger.

"I didn't accept charity," snapped Eragon. "Horst agreed to let me work off the debt this spring. He needs someone to help him because Albriech is going away."

"And where will you get the time to work for him? Are you going to ignore all the things that need to be done here?" asked Garrow, forcing his voice down

Eragon hung his bow and quiver on hooks beside the front door. "I don't know how I'll do it," he said irritably. "Besides, I found something that could be worth
some money" He set the stone on the table.

Garrow bowed over it: the hungry look on his face became ravenous, and his fingers moved with a strange twitch 'You found this in the Spine?"

'Yes," said Eragon. He explained what had happened. "And to make matters worse, I lost my best arrow. I'll have to make more before long." They stared at the
stone in the near darkness.

"How was the weather?" asked his uncle, lifting the stone. His hands tightened around it like he was afraid it would suddenly disappear.

"Cold," was Eragon's reply. "It didn't snow, but it froze each night."

Garrow looked worried by the news. 'Tomorrow you'll have to help Roran finish harvesting the barley. If we can get the squash picked, too, the frost won't bother
us." He passed the stone to Eragon. "Here, keep it. When the traders come, we'll find out what it's worth Selling it is probably the best thing to do. The less we're
involved with magic, the better. . . . Why did Horst pay for the meat?"

It took only a moment for Eragon to explain his argument with Sloan. "I just don't understand what angered him so."

Garrow shrugged. "Sloan's wife, Ismira, went over the Igualda Falls a year before you were brought here. He hasn't been near the Spine since, nor had anything to
do with it. But that's no reason to refuse payment. I think he wanted to give you trouble."

Eragon swayed bleariry and said, 'It's good to be back." Garrow's eyes softened, and he nodded. Eragon stumbled to his room, pushed the stone under his bed,
then fell onto the mattress.Mwwe . For the first time since before the hunt, he relaxed completely as sleep overtook him



DRAGONTALES

l\t dawn the sun's rays streamed through the window, warming Eragon's face. Rubbing his eyes, he sat up on the edge of the bed. The pine floor was cold under

his feet. He stretched his sore legs and rubbed his back, yawning.

Beside the bed was a row of shelves covered with objects he had collected. There were twisted pieces of wood, odd bits of shells, rocks that had broken to reveal
shiny interiors, and strips of dry grass tied into knots. His favorite item was a root so convoluted he never tired of looking at it. The rest of the room was bare, except
for a small dresser and nightstand.

He pulled on his boots and stared at the floor, thinking. This was a special day. It was near this very hour, sixteen years ago, that his mother, Selena, had come
home to Carvahall alone and pregnant. She had been gone for six years, living in the cities. When she returned, she wore expensive clothes, and her hair was bound by
a net of pearls. She had sought out her brother, Garrow, and asked to stay with him until the baby arrived. Within five months her son was born. Everyone was shocked
when Selena tearfully begged Garrow and Marian to raise him. When they asked why, she only wept and said, "I must." Her pleas had grown increasingly desperate
until they finally agreed. She named him Eragon, then departed early the next morning and never returned.

Eragon still remembered how he had felt when Marian told him the story before she died. The realization that Garrow and Marian were not his real parents had
disturbed him greatly. Things that had been permanent and unquestionable were suddenly thrown into doubt. Eventually he had learned to live with it, but he always had
a nagging suspicion that he had not been good enough for his mother./ 'm sure there was a good reason for what she did; I only wish I knew what it was.

One other thing bothered him Who was his father? Selena had told no one, and whoever it night be had never come looking for Eragon. He wished that he knew
who it was, if only to have a name. It would be nice to know his heritage.

He sighed and went to the nightstand, where he splashed his face, shivering as the water ran down his neck. Refreshed, he retrieved the stone from under the bed
and set it on a shelf The morning light caressed it, throwing a warm shadow on the wall He touched it one more time, then hurried to the kitchen, eager to see his
family. Garrow and Roran were already there, eating chicken As Eragon greeted them, Roran stood with a grin.

Roran was two years older than Eragon, muscular, sturdy, and careful with his movements. They could not have been closer even if they had been real brothers.

Roran smiled. "I'm glad you're back. How was the trip?"

"Hard," replied Eragon 'Did Uncle tell you what happened?" He helped himself to a piece of chicken, which he devoured hungrily.

"No," said Roran, and the story was quickly told. At Roran's insistence, Eragon left his food to show him the stone. This elicited a satisfactory amount of awe, but
Roran soon asked nervously, "Were you able to talk with Katrina?"
"No, there wasn't an opportunity after the argument with Sloan But she'll expect you when the traders come. I gave the message to Horst; he will get it to her."

'You told Horst?" said Roran incredulously. 'That was private. If I wanted everyone to know about it, I could have built a bonfire and used smoke signals to
communicate. If Sloan finds out, he won't let me see her again"

"Horst will be discreet," assured Eragon 'He won't let anyone fall prey to Sloan, least of all you." Roran seemed unconvinced, but argued no more. They returned
to their meals in the taciturn presence of Garrow. When the last bites were finished, all three went to work in the fields.

The sun was cold and pale, providing little comfort. Under its watchful eye, the last of the barley was stored in the barn Next, they gathered prickly vined squash,
then the rutabagas, beets, peas, turnips, and beans, which they packed into the root cellar. After hours of labor, they stretched their cramped muscles, pleased that the
harvest was finished.

The following days were spent pickling, sating, shelling, and preparing the food for winter.

Nine days after Eragon's return, a vicious blizzard blew out of the mountains and settled over the valley. The snow came down in great sheets, blanketing the
countryside in white. They only dared leave the house for firewood and to feed the animals, for they feared getting lost in the howling wind and featureless landscape.
They spent their time huddled over the stove as gusts rattled the heavy window shutters. Days later the storm finally passed, revealing an alien world of soft white drifts.

"I'm afraid the traders may not come this year, with conditions this bad," said Garrow. 'They're late as it is. We'll give them a chance and wait before going to
Carvahall But if they don't show soon, we'll have to buy any spare supplies from the townspeople." His countenance was resigned.

They grew anxious as the days crept by without sign of the traders. Talk was sparse, and depression hung over the house.

On the eighth morning, Roran walked to the road and confirmed that the traders had not yet passed. The day was spent readying for the trip into Carvahall,
scrounging with grim expressions for saleable items. That evening, out of desperation, Eragon checked the road again He found deep ruts cut into the snow, with
numerous footprints between them Elated, he ran back to the house whooping, bringing new life to their preparations.

They packed their surplus produce into the wagon before sunrise. Garrow put the year's money in a leather pouch that he carefully fastened to his belt. Eragon set
the wrapped stone between bags of grain so it would not roll when the wagon hit bumps.

After a hasty breakfast, they harnessed the horses and cleared a path to the road. The traders' wagons had already broken the drifts, which sped their progress. By
noon they could see Carvahall

In daylight, it was a small earthy village filled with shouts and laughter. The traders had made camp in an empty field on the outskirts of town Groups of wagons,
tents, and fires were randomly spread across it, spots of color against the snow. The troubadours' four tents were garishly decorated. A steady stream of people linked
the camp to the village.

Crowds churned around a line of bright tents and booths clogging the main street. Horses whinnied at the noise. The snow had been pounded flat, giving it a glassy
surface; elsewhere, bonfires had melted it. Roasted hazelnuts added a rich aroma to the smells wafting around them

Garrow parked the wagon and picketed the horses, then drew coins from his pouch "Get yourselves some treats. Roran, do what you want, only be at Horst's in
time for supper. Eragon, bring that stone and come with me." Eragon grinned at Roran and pocketed the money, already planning how to spend it.

Roran departed immediately with a determined expression on his face. Garrow led Eragon into the throng, shouldering his way through the bustle. Women were
buying cloth, while nearby their husbands examined a new latch, hook, or tool Children ran up and down the road, shrieking with excitement. Knives were displayed
here, spices there, and pots were laid out in shiny rows next to leather harnesses.

Eragon stared at the traders curiously. They seemed less prosperous than last year. Their children had a frightened, wary look, and their clothes were patched. The
gaunt men carried swords and daggers with a new familiarity, and even the women had poniards belted at their waists.



What could have happened to make them like this? And why are they so toe?wondered Eragon. He remembered the traders as being full of good cheer, but
there was none of that now. Garrow pushed down the street, searching for Merlock, a trader who specialized in odd trinkets and pieces of jewelry.

They found him behind a booth, displaying brooches to a group of women. As each new piece was revealed, exclamations of admiration followed. Eragon guessed
that more than a few purses would soon be depleted. Merlock seemed to flourish and grow every time his wares were complimented. He wore a goatee, held himself
with ease, and seemed to regard the rest of the world with slight contempt.

The excited group prevented Garrow and Eragon from getting near the trader, so they settled on a step and waited. As soon as Merlock was unoccupied, they
hurried over.

"And what night you sirs want to look at?" asked Merlock. "An amulet or trinket for a lady?" With a twirl he pulled out a delicately carved silver rose of excellent
workmanship. The polished metal caught Eragon's attention, and he eyed it appreciatively. The trader continued, "Not even three crowns, though it has come all the
way from the famed craftsmen of Belatona."

Garrow spoke in a quiet voice. "We aren't looking to buy, but to sell" Merlock immediately covered the rose and looked at them with new interest.

'1 see. Maybe, if this item is of any value, you would like to trade it for one or two of these exquisite pieces." He paused for a moment while Eragon and his uncle
stood uncomfortably, then continued, 'You didbring the object of consideration?"

"We have it, but we would rather show it to you elsewhere," said Garrow in a firm voice.

Merlock raised an eyebrow, but spoke smoothly. "In that case, let me invite you to my tent." He gathered up his wares and gently laid them in an iron-bound chest,
which he locked. Then he ushered them up the street and into the temporary camp. They wound between the wagons to a tent removed from the rest of the traders'. It
was crimson at the top and sable at the bottom, with thin triangles of colors stabbing into each other. Merlock untied the opening and swung the flap to one side.

Small trinkets and strange pieces of furniture, such as a round bed and three seats carved from tree stumps, filled the tent. A gnarled dagger with a ruby in the
pommel rested on a white cushion.

Merlock closed the flap and turned to them 'Tlease, seat yourselves." When they had, he said, "Now show me why we are meeting in private." Eragon unwrapped
the stone and set it between the two men. Merlock reached for it with a gleam in his eye, then stopped and asked, "May I?" When Garrow indicated his approval,
Merlock picked it up.

He put the stone in his lap and reached to one side for a thin box Opened, it revealed a large set of copper scales, which he set on the ground. After weighing the
stone, he scrutinized its surface under a jeweler's glass, tapped it gently with a wooden mallet, and drew the point of a tiny clear stone over it. He measured its length
and diameter, then recorded the figures on a slate. He considered the results for a while. "Do you know what this is worth?"
